Follow traffic to the light and go left, then left again at the next light. Don't cross the cross way, but turn to look left at the blue-grey building with the red awning.  There's a black hydrant with a silver cap between two silver bollards on the sidewalk.

Touchdown is on the cap of the hydrant. Turn so the nearby intersection is at your back, and the building with the murals is on your right.  Go forward, and move straight through the first two intersections you come to.  Now the median strip won't have plants and a green stripe in it on this block.  Go forward, and look for a closed garage/security gate on your right side that is black with a yellow mural of a face on it.  Stop when you've just passed that mural.  The bear is on the right eye of the face in the mural.  facing away from the bridge, you will have two city buses facing you on your left and see a bus stop on the sidewalk to your right. go straight until you can take a right at the second traffic light. turn right. go straight towards the bridge overpass. just before you reach the intersection underneath the overpass you will see a park on your left. in the park is a light blue bicycle against the fence in the foreground with a man in a light green shirt standing behind it. touchdown is sitting on the handlebars of the bicycle. From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  The green fence should be on your left, and the multicolored murals should be on your right.  Walk down this road, and keep going until you reach an intersection.  

Turn to your right in the intersection.  You should be walking down a one-way road that has a yellow stone building with vertical orange stripes on your right.  On your left should be store with a black sign with a large pink letter.  Walk down the road between these two buildings.  

Walk straight through the first intersection you come to, and make sure that you still see a stone building with a few vertical red stripes on your right after you pass through.  

Keep walking, and go straight through the next intersection you come to.  

Walk forward for another block, and as you approach the next intersection, on the right you should see a store front with a red stripe and blue lettering above its windows.  In front of this building is a dirty yellow newspaper box.   Touchdown is sitting on top of this box.   Turn so you are moving against the flow of traffic. You will only move about half way down the block (against traffic). On the right side there will be black awning sticking out over the side walk. It will have white numbers on it. Touchdown is on top of the numbers as you look at the awning straight on. Going with the flow of traffic, take a left turn at this intersection.  There will be a store on your left with stars next to the name.  Go straight to the next intersection and turn left.   When you start getting close to the next intersection there will be an oval orange sign on your left hanging outside a business. Touchdown is on top of that sign. Orient yourself with traffic and proceed forward. Turn left at the light and proceed forward. Go straight through three intersections. Stop when you are between two white vans. In front of you and to the right is a black fire hydrant. Touchdown is on the silver cap of it. From your starting point, turn around so that you see a black canopy on the left-hand sidewalk up ahead.  It will have lots of lights on its underside.  Walk forward so that you pass that lighted canopy on your left. 

When you come to an intersection, turn left.  There will be a building with multicolored curvy lines painted on it.  Walk forward so that this building is on your right as you pass.  

Move forward, and stop in the middle of the next intersection.  Turn to your left, and then move straight down the narrow street.  You should see black and yellow signs on the wall to your right as you pass.  Keep walking down this street, and pass some yellow metal barricades on your right.  

After the barricades, you should see a black and silver fire hydrant between two black and silver poles.  Move just a little bit further, until you see one more yellow metal barricade on your right.  This one is blocking the front of a silver SUV and the back of a black sedan.

Walk just past that parked black sedan, and look to your left.  There should be a large open door with yellow arrows on the floor.  Just past that door is a bicycle parked on the sidewalk.  Touchdown is sitting on the seat of this bike. Turn so that you are going against the flow of traffic(be careful so that you dont get run over) If you made it safely down this road to the second intersection you will see on your left a building with a lot of Christmas light on it and a glass window with a gold colored circle on it.Touchdown is sitting in the center of this circle Going with the flow of traffic, proceed to the intersection and take a right.  Go straight through the next intersection and turn right at the second intersection.  There will be a lavender building to your right, continue straight for a bit.  You'll go past all the basketball courts on the left.  Before you get to the scaffolding, there will be a grey building on your left that has a bunch of trashcans in front.  Touchdown will be hiding on design on the front of the blue recycling can. Turn so you are heading with the flow of traffic.  Head to the red building  on the right.  Pass it and stop.  Look back at the red building.  The bear is on top of the cone with white stripes.   Hello. Please orient yourself with the flow of traffic. There will be black metal fences with trees to your left side. You will see parked cars to your right side as well as buildings with colorful awnings.

Go straight until you reach the first intersection. 

Turn right. There will be a red brick building with rectangle gating in front of it to your left side. You will see a deep blue building with a wood door to your right side.

Continue straight until you reach the next intersection. 

Turn right again. You will see a brown building with colorful images to your left. There will be a plain brown building with a red door to your right side.

Go straight until you reach the next intersection.

Turn right once more. To your left side, you will see black metal slat gates next to some black trashbags that are filled up. To your right side, there will be a red brick building.

Go straight a little bit until you approach another intersection. Please stop before the crosswalk begins. You will see red and yellow paint markings on the crosswalk.

Look to your left at the corner of the sidewalk. There is a red pole and a green box with a lot of signs and graffiti on it. 

You will find the Touchdown at the bottom of the red pole. Good luck! Orient yourself so that the stairstepped glass building is to your left.  Move slightly to the left in order to get onto the main roadway.  When you are in that position, you'll be able to see some green construction barriers on your left.  Go down the street to the first intersection, where there's lots of construction.  Turn left.  You'll be facing oncoming traffic.  Be on the lookout for a street off to your left.  When you reach the intersection for that street, turn onto it.  There will be some construction barricades on it and green construction barriers to your right. Go down this street to the next intersection.   When you're there, to your left will be a tunnel.  There is a black and white sign with a squiggly arrow.  Touchdown is sitting on the top of that sign, in the middle.  Follow traffic through the first light and go left at the 2nd.  Go left again at the light after that and pass through the intersection without passing the crosswalk on the other side, but take a step left.  Ahead on the right you will see a square grey entry canopy with white and red dimensional letters.  On it is a red stylized comment looking icon with a white glyph in it. Touchdown is centered on it. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic, Continue straight until you reach the intersection and take a left, You should see a red bus lane to your right and a bus stop, Continue straight until you are just past the bus stop, look to your right and you will see a tree with yellow foliage, click the base of the tree to find touchdown.  Face the direction of traffic and move straight towards the intersection. Take a right at the intersection and continue straight. There will be many orange construction barricades on your right. Move straight until you get to the intersection with a red fire vehicle on your right. Move straight through this intersection. There will be a tow truck on your right Touchdown is on the front driver side tire.  Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Head to the nearest intersection.  Turn left and take a step forward.  Look left and back slightly.  The bear is on top of the fire hydrant. Go with the flow of traffic.  You'll come to a five-way intersection.  Turn right, looking for a building with a bright red banner hanging vertically.  You want to proceed such that you go down the street that is to the left of the banner.  You'll know you're on the right track when you see trees and shrubs to your left and a restaurant with a blue stripe at the very top on your right. Go to the next intersection and turn right.  There will now be a park and a small brick plaza off to your left.  Head down this street, past a three-way intersection.  As you enter the four-way intersection, stop before you cross over the second crosswalk.  Ahead of you on the left, on the sidewalk, is a bright red pole.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this pole.   Proceed into the intersection by two paces and then take the left arrow down the street with a row of blue bicycles on the right side. At the next intersection, take a left to head against the flow of traffic down the one-way street. At the next intersection, take a left. You are again moving against the flow of traffic. Immediately before the next intersection, there is a food truck on the right side. Touchdown is on the larger wheel of the food truck.  Turn against the flow of traffic and click right.  It will move you out of the tunnel on to the street.  Follow the flow of traffic.  At intersection, turn right.  Take another right at the next intersection.  Take a few steps forward and look left.  There is a bike chained up.  The bear is on the seat.   Orient yourself so the apartment building courtyard is on your right and the large intersection is behind you.  Begin walking forward, for a very long time.  Count the intersections, you're going to go straight through 3 of them, two that are 3-way and one that is 4-way.  After the 4-way intersection, look ahead towards the end of the road, you should see a bridge crossing above the street.  Begin walking toward that bridge and get about half way towards it.  You'll know you're close when you see a parking lot on either side of you.  Just past those parking lots, you'll see a building on your left that has pictures of lobsters on it.  Keep straight, and two buildings past the lobster building, you'll see a red brick building, with red doors, that has a fake green tile roof for an awning.  There are metal bars with a circular pattern over the windows.  To the right of the first red door is a blue square sign.  Touchdown is in the middle of that sign. Align yourself with the flow of traffic on this street. Take one step up and take a right. Follow this down to the next intersection, and take another right., Ignore the next intersection, go down the street until you hit the scaffolding on your left starting. You should see two blue signs underneath the first part of the scaffolding. Touchdown is on the left blue sign. Turn and walk in the same direction as traffic. Pass between 2 red signs and continue on. Go right at the first intersection.  When you come to another 4 way intersection, go right again. There will be a plain brick building ahead on your left, with a large opening for driving through. Stand in front of that opening, facing it, and find a large rectangular piece of plywood ahead on the wall. Touchdown is right in the middle of that board.  Go with the flow of traffic.  When you reach the first intersection, turn left.  There will be some three-story brown brick buildings on your right.  Go to the next intersection and turn left agin.  There will be construction scaffolding on your right.  Pass all of this scaffolding.  There will be a tan concrete wall with a blue stripe on top after it.  Pass this as well.  On your right there will then be a yellow and pink banner hanging off a pole.  Go a bit past this and then stop.  You should be stopped next to a blue, green and white moving truck.  Touchdown is sitting on the pavement next to the front, driver's side wheel of this truck. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the large Blue sign to the left in front of you, Go forward until you reach the next intersection and continue straight, Go forward until you reach the next intersection and take a left, You should see a blue mailbox on your left And a black sign with white lettering on the right, Click the base of the garbage can next to the blue mailbox to find touchdown.
 Turn so the cross walk is in front of you. Go straight through this intersection. Go straight until you come to a traffic light. Take a left. You will have a business with a red and yellow signs on your right. Go straight. At the next light take a left. Go down this street almost all the way. Stop when you get to the business with a red awing and gold lettering and symbols on it. You will see in front of this business a stairway going to a below ground floor. Touchdown is sitting on the ground in the middle of the top of that stairway.  Turn so the bridge is on your left and the fenced basketball court is on your right and go forward towards the overpass far in the distance ahead of you.

You will eventually pass a long row of orange and white Jersey barriers on your left.  Just as you've cleared them, turn to your right where you should be facing straight on a green dumpster in front of a parking lot.

Touchdown is sitting on the slanted top dumpster panel, dead center, between the two handles.

 Turn so that you're walking with the flow of traffic. Go straight at the first intersection and then turn left at the intersection past the church. At the next intersection turn left again. There will be a light post with 2 orange and white cones next to it on the right sidewalk a bit down the street. Touchdown is sitting at the base of the light post facing the curb. Turn so the construction wall is on your left side, and the modern ladder-style awning is on your right.  Go forward, under the bridge, and to an intersection that is under the bridge.  Turn left at this intersection.
Come out from under the bridge after your turn, and go straight through the intersection you soon come to where you have the chance to turn right.  The next intersection is a four-way, and you will continue straight through this one, also.
Stop before you step onto the crosswalk of the next intersection you come to. There's a dark green trash can on the corner on your right.  The bear is on the trash can (on top). 

 Turn with the flow of cars and head to the nearest intersection.  Turn left, then take the next left.  Take a couple of steps forward and stop.  Look left and above the car.  The is a circle between numbers, the bear is in the middle.   Position yourself so the green scaffolding is on your right. Take this street to the first intersection and turn right. Just after you turn, there will be a parking area on your right and green scaffolding on your left. 

Go straight through the first intersection on this street. When you get to the second intersection, go straight again. Right away, you'll see orange construction barrels on your left that lead to an orange and white construction barrier. Touchdown is sitting on top of the last orange barrel that is touching the first white construction barrier piece.  Walk down the street with the four stop signs and go right at the intersection. Keep walking straight. (Yes, this is weird). You'll see ahead of you a green overhang jutting out over the side walk to your right - if so, you're on the right path. Walk down that tree lined street (you'll see a second green overhang in the distance) until you get to the next intersection, where you'll take a right, and then another right at the following intersection. (It's a T junction)

Proceed down the narrow one day street until you are standing in front of a metal door with heavy graffiti (you will have just passed a hydrant between two red poles on your left).

As you face the metal door with graffiti, note there are three concrete "sections" in front of it. The touchdown is dead center of the middle section, against the metal door.



 Turn so the nearby intersection is in front of you and the little triangular garden patch is on your right.  Go straight through the intersection right in front of you. 
You'll now have a low wrought iron fence along a small triangular park on your left.  Go to the end of the block and turn right. 
Now you'll have orange traffic cones on the sidewalk to your right, and tiny construction area in the street to your left (sawhorse style barriers there).  The first intersection you come to isn't a big one - there are no stop signs or traffic lights, and it's a three-way.  Turn right here.  
You'll now have a restaurant with a red wall on your left, and a green mailbox on your right.  Go to the end of this block.  The intersection at the end of the block is kind of a strange shape.  You'll first come to a little street where you could turn left.  Go straight past that toward the main part of the intersection. Walk into the main intersection, and stop when you're right in the middle of it.  The corner on the right just ahead of you has a shop with a bright red door.  There are nine panels in the window of the door. The bear is on the gold mail slot of that door. Turn so your back is to the very nearby intersection, and the bright blue benches are on your right.  Go forward to the intersection just ahead of you, and turn right.  On this new block you'll pass a grass lawn and then a parking lot on your right.  You're going most of the way down this very long block.  You'll pass a light blue wall with a mural on it on your left.  After that you'll pass a playground on the right.  Just past the playground is a handball court with a tan wall.  Stop when you're even with the middle of this court and wall.  On the other side of the street, on your left, there are red cellar doors in the sidewalk that are open.  The bear is right in the middle of this opening.   Going with the flow of traffic, proceed to the intersection and take a right turn. Be sure not to veer to the left ahead, just go straight by the signs that has colorful designs on it.  At the next intersection where there is scaffolding on your right, take a right turn. You will take another right at the next intersection, you should now have some short shrubs on your right.  When you get to the next intersection take a right and stop. Touchdown will be at the base of the first tree on the right hand side. Stand so you are moving with traffic and following a large white truck.. Move straight a few steps into the intersection, and turn left. Continue to the next intersection. As you enter the intersection, the corner ahead to your right has a green trash can. Touchdown is on top of the trash can. Head in the direction of the traffic that is close to the intersection and make a left turn. Follow the one way road till you arrive at another intersection and make a left turn. Follow the road all the way till you get to a beige building and on top of it is three black and white rectangle flags/banner. If you look ahead on the road you should stop at the where the road curve into another lane for parking. There should be a black fire hydrant next to you between two white poles. The touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant. Turn so the green bike path is on your left and you can follow the flow of traffic.  Proceed down this road, pass the first intersection, when you see the red brick building on your left, turn right,  Proceed down this road, pass the first intersection, stop when you see the red awnings on your right.  In front of the first set of doors under the red awning there is a fire hydrant to the left of a tree between two poles.  Touchdown is on top of that fire hydrant. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, and take the intersection left shortly ahead. You should now be following a bus.

Head down to the next intersection, and make another left. You should see construction barriers on your left now.

Go in to the next intersection, and stop. You should see a food cart, with an umbrella over it. On the food selection, there is a blue picture in the middle of all the yellow pictures at the top middle. Touchdown is in that blue section. Follow traffic down the street with the grey entry canopy to your left and scaffolding ahead to your right. Go right at the light. Go right again at the next one.  You'll see blue rental bikes on your right and a red banner hanging vertically far ahead to your left.  Pass the banner and stop when you're just slightly past where the scaffolding on the right starts, and just past the parking meter with the blue band on your left.

Rotate left.  You should be staring at a store front with glass doors and one huge glass window, below which, in front of the white panel, are two Siamese pipes, one green and one red.  Touchdown is atop the green one. Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. There should be a teal semi-trailer truck ahead and to the right.

2. Take a right at the intersection. A red awning and blue building should be to your right. Ignore the fork in the road ahead, and ignore the three-way intersection right after it.

3. At the next intersection (a four-way), take another right. There should be a large, dark gray, brick building to your right and a median to your left. Your destination is near.

4. When the road forks, keep to the right. You should see a few orange and white construction barriers on your right.

5. Stop when you're even with the last white one. Touchdown is sitting on the circular, orange light on top of the middle of this specific barrier.

Good luck! :) Turn in the direction of traffic. Walk into the intersection ahead and turn right. You'll have a traffic median to your left. 

Walk down to the next intersection and turn right again. This time you'll have a yellow store front on your left.

Walk to the next intersection and turn right. Now you'll have a black awning with white writing on your left. 

Go down to the intersection and turn right one last time. You'll have a stop with a red awning on your right. Next to it is three smaller awnings on the second floor windows, also belonging to the same shop. Touchdown is on the windowsill under the third small awning from the corner.
 Turn so the traffic island/divider is on your left and you are facing an intersection almost immediately in front of you. Walk forward and turn right at that intersection. 

Now you will have cars parallel parked on your left and diagonally backed in to their spaces on the right. 

Walk forward until the next intersection and turn right again. This time you will have the diagonal parking on the right and a green bike lane on the left.

Walk forward about 3/4 of the way to the next intersection. You will pass a off-street parking lots on both your left and right (basically across from each other). Right after that on the left side you will see a  bright yellow sign with black figures on it, then a red sign, then a fire hydrant. Touchdown is at the base of the hydrant.

 Orient yourself so you are facing the same direction the parked cars are.  Move to the intersection and turn right.  Walk down this road.  Go straight through two intersections.  At the third intersection, turn right.  There will be a long row of dark green banners on your left.  Past these banners  Is a row of blue rental bikes.  Just past the end of the row of bikes, on your right you'll see dark green plywood awning supported with scaffolding on your right.  Hanging from the front of this awning is a blue and red sign.  Touchdown is in the middle of this sign. Turn so you are heading down a one way street with traffic. There will be a small green fence on the right side of the street.Go one block and take a left in front of the orange awning. Go straight and take a left at the next intersection. Stop when you are almsot to the gate entrance on the right almost at the end of the street. Look at the structure of brick and concrete anchoring the left side of the fence. Touchdown is in the middle of the circle with a leaf in it that is on a sign on this structure.  Turn so the pumpkins on the stairs is on your right. Follow this street to the 1st intersection and take a left. There will be a building with scaffolding on your left, move to the next intersection and take another left, you will have a row of blue bikes on your left, continue down this street, just before the next intersection, on your right are large potted trees, the bear is sitting at the base of the trunk on the last tree before the intersection  Follow traffic through the first intersection.  Take the next right.Continue forward and take the next right.  You will go over the bridge.  Before you go exit the bridge you will see two orange cones.  The bear is sitting on the right one. Orient yourself so that the median is on your left and there is chain link fencing on your right.  Go to the intersection and turn left.  The raised highway will be on your right.  You'll immediately come to an intersection (the other side of the divided street you were on); go straight through this.  Also go straight through the three-way intersection you encounter.  After this three-way intersection, there will be orange-striped concrete barriers on your right, then some plain concrete barriers.  Pass these.  then you'll see some rectangular orange and white striped barriers that are made out of 2x4's or something similar.  Pass these as well and then immediately stop.  There will be more of the striped 2x4's ahead of you on the right, but these are no squared off; they are falling apart.  Turn 90 degrees to your right and you will now be facing the squared-off striped barricade.  Above it, hanging off a metal I-beam, is a red sign.  Touchdown is in the middle of this sign.   Go with traffic to the right of the split in the road on the same side of the yellow building with trash outside.Go straight at the first intersection. a building with a Purple awing on the left corner at the end of the intersection. Go straight at the next intersection into the second intersection and turn right. Orange and white road barriers will be on the left. Turn right at the next intersection.  Stop directly next to the yellow bike on the right that has a plastic bag on the seat. Touchdown is sitting on the seat of the bike. Turn so the big cube-shaped sculpture is on your right side (you'll pass it on your right).  Go forward, and straight through the intersection that's just past the sculpture.  At the next intersection you come to, turn right. Go straight through two intersections.  After you go through that last intersection, note the grassy plantings under the trees on your right. Go forward until you're past the grassy plantings and are almost in the next intersection, but not quite.  There is a red fire hydrant on your right.  The bear is on top of the hydrant. Orient yourself with the flow of traffic.There will be a couple orange cones and striped wooden barriers to your left.

Go straight and make a right at the THIRD intersection. Once there you will be travelling into oncoming traffic. there will be a white car in front of you and two policemen on either side of it.

Go straight. Just past the SECOND intersection, there will be a building on your left with all kinda of purple xmas lights. On your right you will see two american flags. The touchdown is on the blue part of the first flag.

 Turn and go in same direction as traffic. Turn left at this intersection. Blue and orange to the right and orange to the left. Stay straight and turn left at the big intersection where you see the red, white and blue flag on the left. After you turn left here go until you are in front of the large flag and stop. Touchdown is on the star at the very top on the left.  Going with the flow of traffic, go to the first intersection and take a left.  Go to the next intersection and take another left. You'll go to the next intersection once again and take a left and stop.  On your left hand side, there's a tan colored building with three awnings.  Touchdown is in the center of the curved architecture that's above the center awning. Follow the flow of traffic, with the big, brown building on your right and make a right at the intersection. Follow the red bus lane on your right and make a right at the first intersection. There will now be a black awning on your left and a green one on your right. Continue down this one-way street, passing a colorful court on your right and stopping when you are in the middle of the two big staircases leading to the black doors of the brown, brick building on your right. Position yourself so that you have both staircases on either side of you. Touchdown will be on the handle of the first black door near the staircases to your right which has the blue and white sign above it. Follow traffic into the tunnel.  When reality warps and you're outside on a sunny street all of a sudden, you've watched too much Rick & Morty. But also, go left, passing on your right a black building on the corner with red umbrellas out front, and then one with a red awning. 

Take a left at the light, and go down the block and towards the other side of the intersection, stopping a bit before the crosswalk.  Ahead and on the right corner should be a red brick building with green awning and on the left corner a nondescript red brick building.

On the pole on the left corner is a white sign with a red circle, a black truck and a red slash through it.  Touchdown is affixed to the center of it. Turn so that the store with the bright yellow sign is on your left. Walk to the intersection that is close by, and turn left at it. There should now be a gray building on your left, and a brick building on your right. Walk forward, passing some red external stairs on your left. Keep going, and you will see some orange construction barriers on your right. Stop when you are by the white one. If you turn left, you will see two lights on the scaffolding, right above where people walk through. One is red, one is white. Touchdown is in the center of the red one.  Align yourself so that the tent tops are on your left., and head to the intersection to make a right.

You'll head through one intersection, and stop at the second.

You should see a neon lit sign with a big number on it, and below it a regular striped awning with the same number. Touchdown is in the number facing the street on the awning. With traffic, go the light and right.  Go through the next light and take a right at the one after that, stopping just before the crosswalk.  Ahead will be red stripes on both sides of the road, and a line of white bollards with dual grey stripes on the left.  Also on the left further ahead is an American flag jutting from a building. Touchdown is impaled at the end of its pole. Face the overpass and go under it. Turn a left at the first intersection.  You'll have the bridge to your left.  Go to the next intersection and turn left again.  Making your way under another overpass. Take another left at the next intersection. There are two silver garage doors on your right.  Touchdown is on the top yellow sign after the last garage door. Follow the flow of traffic to the next intersection.  Turn right. Follow the flow of traffic to the next intersection.  Continue through the intersection.  Building with red stripe on your right.  Past the red, the building turns green.  There is a small shop with a yellow top.  The bear is on a picture of a sandwich.   Get turned so the garage doors are on your right side and the arched doors are on your left. Go to the end of this block. Make a right turn. You will be going the correct direction down this one way street. Go straight one block. Make another right turn. You are on a smaller one way street going the correct direction now. The building on your right has red awnings. Go straight a short distance. When you are next to the last red awning of the corner business on the right side come to a stop. Look to the right and there is a pole with a blue stripe right in front of you. Touchdown is on top of that pole.  Turn so you are facing the same direction as traffic, and the white with green flowered banners are on your right. Travel down this road, passing 1 intersection.  Now there will be green construction on your left.  Proceed through the next intersection, there will be a store with green and yellow signs on your right.  Turn right at the next intersection, keeping the green and yellow signs on your right.  Follow this road about halfway down, watching on the right for a parking area behind a chainlink fence.  Stop there.  In front of the lot are two orange cones.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the one that is pointed upwards and does not have any white stripes. Orient yourself with the fence to your right and go straight, turning left at the intersection. Go straight past some construction and reach the next intersection. Turn left. Go straight until you see some stores on the right; one in particular has a green facade. Touchdown is in front of the opaque door. Turn so you are facing the flow of traffic. You'll have some scaffolding to your right and an intersection ahead. Walk into the intersection and turn right. You'll have the same scaffolding to your right and a large building with greenery and trees behind a wrought iron fence to your left. 

Walk forward to the next intersection. Make a right so you're on a road with a traffic median with trees to your left. 

Walk down one block. At the first intersection, make another right so you're starting to head down a more residential street. There will be a building with green awning coming out perpendicular to the sidewalk on your left. 

Walk forward past scaffolding on your right. As you come to the end of the scaffolding, look to your left. There will be a narrow building with a white ground floor and columns outside the door. There is a wrought iron fence with an arch. Touchdown is on the lamp at the top of the arch. Face the flow of traffic with a brown building on your left and scaffolding on your right. You will pass the first intersection and make a left at the second one. You know you are going in the right direction when you see the  big red doors on your right before you make the left. Get to the first traffic light and make another left. There should now be a red building on your right and a green storefront on your left. Go straight and pass the red hexagon signs. Stop when you get to the traffic lights. Touchdown is on the traffic light on the right. Hello there!

1. Turn to the left until there's a building with a blue awning to your right and a park/playground to your left.

2. Begin moving forward. Pass through the three-way intersection. Right after that, you'll come across a four-way intersection. Take a right.

3. Orient yourself so that a building with red and white graffiti is to your right and a building with a blue awning is to your left.

4. Move towards the next intersection, passing through it. Your destination is not far from the intersection.

5. Stop when, to your immediate right, there's a brownish fire hydrant with a silver top near a bike tied to a sign post. Touchdown is sitting on the very top of the fire hydrant.

Good luck! :) Orient yourself in which there is a yellow awning on your right. Pass this awning and you should arrive at an intersection. Once at the intersection, make a left turn. Once you made a left turn, follow the road a little bit till you arrive at another intersection. Once at the intersection, make a left turn. Follow the road passing the red and green awning on your right. Pass the building with the graffiti. Skip the intersection you come across too and continue forward passing the two yellow awning on your right. Once you pass the building with the awnings pass the building with the green stair case on your right. After you pass the stair case, to your left is an orange barrel with white stripes. The touchdown is sitting on top of the barrel. Going with the flow of traffic, go to the first intersection and turn left.  At the next light, turn left. Go straight through two intersections.  At the third intersection, go into the intersection and look ahead for the large red diamond shaped sign, surround by traffic cones.  Touchdown is in the center of that sign. Turn to go with the flow of traffic.  You'll see a bunch of water bottles on the left.

At the intersection, turn left.  You should see a red awning on the left.

At the very next intersection go left again.  On your right should be a purple awning and a light brick building on the left.

While moving down this street you'll pass some scaffolding, a very green storefront, and then some more scaffolding.  On the second set of scaffolding, turn to the left side of the street and you should see a recessed area with what looks like an external elevator a few floors up.

Touchdown is on this red elevator. Go with the flow of traffic. Stop when you are in the middle of the first intersection that you come to (you won't have to go far). Turn 45 degrees to your left.  There is a half-moon curb in dividing the bike lane from the street.  There are two poles on this curb.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the left one.   Enter the closest intersection, and then turn left.  You need to make the next left (Keeping the orange fences on your right), but the navigation is slightly tricky.  The road will then turn so that you are along side a bridge.  Stop as it turns and look left.  There is a silver pole that is slightly bent.  The bear is on top. Go with traffic flow, red awnings will be on your right. Turn right at the corner.

Go 1 block and go right again.

Go with traffic flow down past the bikes on the left, going through the 3-way that comes up, down past the park on the left then turn right at the 3-way corner. 

Go 1 block and turn right. There will be a white dumpster with a blue tarp on the right. Just before that dumpster on the right is a tree, and before the tree a round planter, all on the right. Touchdown is on top of the plant in the round planter on the right.  Orient yourself against traffic, enter the intersection, and turn right. Stop before the crosswalk to exit the intersection. Ahead on the left is a church Touchdown is on the face of the statue in the church garden that is a female figure with an archway behind her. Put the red banner on your left and brown fence on your right. Once you pass the fence, turn right, and then take the next left immediately. At the next intersection, Touchdown is sitting on a trashcan on the sidewalk. Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic, away from that intersection right next to you. Move ahead to the intersection, and turn right. Go to the next intersection and turn right again. Move to the next intersection and turn right again. Just before you enter the next intersection, face right and there is a rectangular black metal structure next to a brick building. Touchdown is on the front of that structure. Get turned so the bridge is on your left side. Go to the intersection and make a right. Go one block to a 3 way intersection and make another right. Once you have turned there is a blue mailbox on the right side and some blue benches a little further. Go straight at the small 3 way intersection on the right and then keep straight again right after that where there is a 3 way intersection to the left.  When you get to the next 3 way intersection that goes right again, turn right. Once you are turned there is a fenced parking lot to your left. Go straight to the intersection and make another right. You'll see a fire hydrant on the right. Go just past that then stop. Up ahead is a large pile of trash bags. Look to the left there is a construction barrel against the wall before the fence starts. Touchdown is on top of that barrel.  Head down street in direction of traffic. Continue straight to first intersection, make a left at intersection. Go to next intersection and make a left. Look for building on left side of street that is beige in color. The building has three long white lights on it, the light in middle has a round, red alarm on it . above the alarm on building is target.  Turn so the buisiness with the green awnings is on your right. At the intersection turn left. You will be facing oncoming traffic. Go through 3 intersections. Stop at the intersection with some trees in the median across the street. Take a right here and then another immediate right. You will be facing oncoming traffic. To your left is a bike rack. Touchdown is sitting on the seat of the only bike in that rack.  Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street. Go straight until you reach an intersection (it's a long block), then turn right.  Go one short block to the next intersection, and turn right. You'll have construction scaffolding on your right, and after that a spot where the road narrows because of construction. After you get through the narrowed part, stop when you're just near the beginning of the next set of scaffolding on your right. On the right, there is a small door with a maroon awning just before the scaffolding begins.  The bear is in the center of the awning, where the words are. Align yourself with the flow of traffic on this street, with the red bus lane to your right. Take a step up and make a left at this intersection. At the end of the intersection, you should have a mural with cacti on it and a sign with peppers and vegetables on it. Make another left here. You'll make another left at the next intersection.

Head down until you see the ladder on your left with the start of scaffolding. Touchdown is at the base of the ladder in the middle. Turn around and align yourself so the red and purple awnings are on your left. Head up to the intersection close to you and make a left.

You'll head to the first intersection on this road, and make another left. Head down until you pass the red sign on your left in the storefront, and stop in front of the blue lettered sign. There should be two bikes on the gate behind the light pole in front of the two stores. Touchdown is on the right bike seat. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the food stands on your left in the building with the mural windows on your right.  Move forward passing a parking garage on your right and you will come to a three-way intersection, go through this intersection. continue forward until you reach the next intersection and take a left. You should see a bank on your right with a large outdoor art piece made of red letters in front of it. Also on the right side you should see a red bicycle leaning up against the pool and a black fire hydrant just ahead of that,  move forward until you are  just past the Red Bicycle. Turn to your right so you are facing the black fire hydrant. Touchdown is sitting at the base of the black fire hydrant. Turn, so that the bus stop is on your right. Go straight, stop before you reach the second traffic light, Touchdown is sitting on the right side of the bus stop bench. Face the direction that traffic is moving, with the purple awning on your right, and make a right at the intersection. 
Stop before you pass the second intersection and look to your right. 
There will be an orange bin to the left of the phone booth. Touchdown is on top of that orange bin. Turn so the place with the arched red doors is on your left, and go forward to the intersection.  Turn left at the intersection.  After the turn you'll have some sort of bridge above you to your right.  Go forward a short distance to the next traffic light, and turn left again.  After that turn you'll see a market with lots of goods out along the sidewalk (dry goods), and then a black awning and then a purple awning as you go down the block.  The next opportunity to turn will be a three-way intersection that is right before a big four-way intersection.  Ignore the three-way option, go straight into the four-way intersection, continue straight, and then almost immediately you'll have another four-way option.  At this second four-way intersection, turn left.  You want to end up with the building with the deep blue awning on your right, and the fenced off stretch dividing the roads on your left.  Go a very short distance to the next intersection, and turn left.  You'll have a couple more chances to turn in this big messy intersection area.  Go through one, and then stop when you're right in the middle of the final four-way choice here.  You'll have an ugly graffiti-covered garage door that wraps around a corner on your right slightly ahead of where you're standing.  You'll have orange and white construction stuff on your left.  On the right, near the ugly garage door is a dumpster.  The bear is on top of the dumpster. Turn going in the direction of the traffic flow. Move forward to the intersection and turn left. Move with the traffic flow and go through the first intersection. Turn left at the next corner where the scaffolding is. Move forward, with the scaffolding and bicycles are on the right. Go just past the American flag. Turn to your right and around a bit and Touchdown is on top of a metal collection bin. Turn and go the direction so that a play area or basketball court is on your left. Turn right at intersection. There will be flowers and shrubs separating direction of traffic. You are going with the traffic. Go straight thru next intersection. You will pass a aqua and gray building with blue doors on the right. Above the doors is a gray circle . Touchown is in the middle of circle. Orient yourself so that there is a deli with a blue roof/awning to your right. You are going to go straight across the intersection to the street to the left of this building. Go around the curve and continue to pass 2 intersections. At the third intersection, make the first right. Half way down this street you will see a yellow speed bump sign on your right. The touchdown is located in the middle of it. Align yourself with the flow of traffic in your lane. Head to the intersection and make a left. There should be a row of blue bikes ahead on your left as you head up the street.

You'll want to head down this street until you pass all of the apartment buildings on your left, and hit an all glass bottom, but strange silver wall with circles for windows building.

On your right side, there should be a parking sign which is white background and red lettering. Touchdown is in the middle of the two signs. Turn and walk in the same direction as traffic. Go right at the first intersection. Immediately upon turning, there will be a restaurant with outdoor seating on the corner to your right. Go straight ahead. Pass straight through the next intersection.  At the next intersection you come to, look for the picture of a ladies head with white eyes on a sidewalk sign on the right. Go left at this intersection. Once you turn onto the street, immediately turn and go in the opposite direction, straight across the intersection. Stop when you are near a stairwell going underground on your right, immediately after crossing. To the left of that stairwell, see a red newspaper box with a blue sign on it.  Touchdown is sitting on the highest part of that box.  Hello. Please orient yourself with the flow of traffic. To your right will be a bright red building. To your left will be a red brick building with silver accents and a rounded glass block wall.

When you reach the four-way intersection, turn right. 

Walk forward against the flow of traffic a short while to the next four-way intersection. Turn right.

To your left will be a colorfully painted building. To your left will be a white building with a black awning and a delivery truck with the back door open. 

Walk forward on this path, passing by a bright green delivery truck on your right. Keep going. To your left will be some blue gates. Continue to watch the left side of the path while moving forward.

There will be black trashbags next to a fire hydrant. Walk forward slightly until you are standing next to a parked white van with blue stripes. Please stop when you are standing next to the van. 

Touchdown will be on the top of the fire hydrant. Good luck! Start walking the same direction as traffic. Make a left at the first intersection. At the next intersection, also make a left. About 3/4 down this block you will see a yellow sign on the right, warning of a speed bump in the road.  couple steps past this, there is a sleeping bag and chair to the right on the sidewalk. Touchdown is on the first chair.  Turn to where you're going with the moving traffic. Go straight and turn left at the next intersection. You should now be on a street with a green bike lane on the left. Keep going straight and go straight past the first and second intersection. Go a little bit further until you see two orange traffic cones on your left sitting in front of a open cellar door. The bear is on top of the left one. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Pass the black fence to your left and the green sidewalk covering to your right. At the intersection, go left. Now you will be moving with traffic on a busy street. On your right is a brick building with red flags. Pass this building, and soon there is another intersection. turn left again. Pass the row of blue bikes and then the playground on your left. Soon there will be an off-white building on your right, with blue doors. Stop when you get to the final blue door. Touchdown is in the center of the door.  Turn to follow traffic, with the green pole with a stop light to your right and a blue overhang to your left and walk until you reach the next intersection, and go left.

To your right will be a building with neatly maintained shrubbery and to the left a red building with white cement squares and a huge blue door. Walk until you reach the intersection, but don't enter it.

To your front left (diagonal to you: If it's directly to the left, take a step back!) is a green trash can next to a pole. The touchdown is directly above the hole at the top of the trash can. First orient yourself so that there are gift shops on your right and a building with bright blue lighting ahead on your left. Walk straight. At the corner, turn right. You'll see two American flags hanging on your left and a parking garage on your right. Walk down this street.  Walk through the intersection and continue straight. You'll pass a church on your right. You're halfway toward your destination.  There will be a red neon sign for a bar & grill on your right. Walk past this and turn right at the intersection. You'll see a pizza place on your right and a PARK sign on your left. Walk forward.  You'll see a red sign for a Peking Roast Duck restaurant. Touchdown will be in front of the door of this restaurant. Head down the street the same direction as traffic. At the first intersection, make a right. At the next 3 way intersection, you want to make another right. Continue down this street until you can see the next intersection, and stop at the very end of the chain link fence to your left, take one step back. Touchdown is in the corner between the chain link fence and the fancy metal fence that surrounds the next building.  Alike yourself with the flow of traffic, based on the parked cars. Follow the road down and make the first right. Follow the curved road down and you should see a  yellow traffic sign right before a tunnel. Two steps in to the tunnel, you should see a red truck on your right. Touchdown is sitting on the canopy of the pickup. Turn so the traffic light is right in front of you. Go straight down this street. After you click to go through the light you will be facing on coming one way traffic. There will be two yellow vans parked on the right side of the street. At the light take a right. Go straight at the next light. Stop just before the next intersection you come to. You will see a food cart with umbrellas on the right side across the street. Ahead of you is red sign with an arrow pointing left. Touchdown is sitting on top of that sign.  Stand in the center of the intersection with the orange barriers to your left and brown wall that has a lot of leaves to your right. Move forward and backtrack to the left side of the street before reaching the scaffolding on your right. Turn around and the orange barriers should now be on your right and the median with the potted plants on your left. Make a right at the first intersection, now following the line of trees on your left and make a right at the first traffic light. There will now be a car lot to your right and parked bikes on your left. Follow the traffic and make your last right at the intersection. Continue down the street passing half of the scaffolding to your left and stop before completely passing the parking lot on your right. Touchdown will be on your right, on the red sign that is below the white and green sign on the pole. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and the playground on your left.
Turn right at the next intersection and you should see scaffolding ahead on the left, but it may be hard to see.  Just head down to the next intersection and turn right again.
One you do, you will have scaffolding on your left.  Head down this street and past the first intersection and keep going.  Eventually you will be given the option to move into the correct lane of traffic, do so stop just before the next intersection with the manhole cover still in front of you in the lane.  On the right is a mostly red sign with white text where Touchdown is hiding.

 Turn and walk in the same direction as traffic. There will be a playground on your right. Go straight across the intersection you come to, but stop in the middle of the intersection, just before crossing the crosswalk in front of you. On your left corner, see a red and gray pole of some type. It is wider at the bottom  and has a silver painted top.  Touchdown is sitting on the very top of it.  Orient yourself with traffic, proceed, and turn left at the light. Proceed through two intersections, barely exiting the second and stopping when orange barriers begin on the right sidewalk. Touchdown is at the base of the tree in the median in the center of the street. From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  The blue and white bus should be on your right.  Walk forward, go straight through the first intersection, but then stop in the middle of the next intersection, so that a big white truck with black logos is just in front of you.  Turn to your left.  You should see the back of a shiny black sedan, a construction worker in a bright yellow vest, a woman in dark red dress and black jacket, etc.  If you see all of these things in front of you, walk forward.  It will be a long straight walk.  If you see big yellow trucks parked on both sides of the street, you are half-way there, so keep up the good work.  Stop before you cross the white line in front of a crosswalk and you should see Touchdown the Bear sitting on top of a green mailbox, on the right-hand sidewalk.  If you see the mailbox, but not the bear, just take one more step forward. Take an immediate left, then head up the street with the scaffolding on your right. You will not be going down the street you started on. Head down this street, and make your first left. Ignore the second immediate left and go down this street going through the tunnel. A little past the tunnel, there will be park area on your right, with a black SUV, and a blue SUV, sitting in front. Touchdown is on the back tire closes to you on the blue SUV, in the middle. FACE SO THAT YOU ARE TRAVELING WITH THE FLOW OF TRAFFIC GO TO THE FIRST INTERSECTION AND TURN LEFT
CONTINUE TO THE NEXT INTERSECTION AND AGAIN TURN LEFT THERE IS A FOOD CART ON YOUR LEFT AND A CLOTHES CART ON THE RIGHT CONTINUE STRAIGHT UNTIL JUST BEFORE THE ENTRANCE OF A PARKING LOT ON YOUR LEFT NEXT TO THIS THERE IS  YELLOW SIGN WITH BLACK LETTERS AND TWO DOWNWARDS FACING ARROWS TOUCHDOWN IS ON THE RIGHT ARROW Face so there is a narrow road going downhill on the right side. On the left side is a yellow awning with a red front. Follow the flow of traffic to the first intersection. You will want to turn right at this street but you need to go forward to be able to go back right. It's a rather large intersection with many different roads connecting to it. Once you enter the intersection and have the ability to turn, you want to rotate around and find the corner with a set of fruit stands on the corner, the same corner will have trashcan sitting next to a gray pole with a square green sign higher up on it.  You will want that corner to be on the right of you as you go onto this street. If you are going down the correct street there will be a green space with a black fence on the left and the right side will have empty brown stands on the right side with a green and cream striped awning over them. There will be scaffolding on the right side with green boards over it. Right as it ends there is a one-way road going right, take a right this road. You will pass a stop sign on the left and a playground, continue forward. The road will start to curve follow this. On the right side you will pass a building will roll down gates, right next to those roll down gates after passing them is an intricate green frame and door with one door that is a black metal door. The Touchdown is on the bronze door knob of the green door.  Go with traffic and go right at the light. Red, blue, then red sign bands will be on your left. Go right at the next light.  Stop before passing the last two orange k-walls on your right.  Rotate right, and you'll be staring down a passage. There's a bright red light on the scaffolding. Touchdown is on it. Align yourself so the scaffolding is on your left, and the bus stop on your right. Head past the first intersection, and make a right turn at the second. There should be a light green striped storefront at the top and in the windows on your left with a phone booth in front. Head down to the next intersection and make one last right. There should be a red pole next to the base of the traffic pole. Touchdown is sitting on top of it. Turn so the construction is on your left and the bright blue wall along basketball courts is on your right.  Move forward to the intersection and turn right.  This is a short block - go to the end and turn right at the intersection.  Go to the end of this new block, and turn right at the intersection.  Again, you'll go to the end of this block.  Move into the intersection, but don't turn.  Simply stop in the middle of the intersection.  One of the four corners has a building painted with murals at street level.  The bear is in the corner in the middle of the mural, sitting on the ground.   Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the gift shop on your right. Continue moving forward to the next intersection and take a left. You should see a restaurant with white and red awnings to the left in front of you and a food cart on the sidewalk to the right. Continue moving forwards for quite some time passing scaffolding with a green awning on the right and scaffolding with a red awning on the left. Take a left at the next intersection. You should see scaffolding with a red awning to your left and a theatre to your right. Continue forward to the next intersection and take another left. Stop and look down. You should see a manhole cover in the bike lane. Touchdown is sitting on the manhole cover. Look towards the flow of traffic. Go straight. Go left at the intersection with a black gate on your left. Move forward and you'll see a small white truck parked on your left with a green leaf sticker on the back. Touchdown is on the back passenger tire.  Start by travelling down the road so the building with the red awnings is on your right. Go through three intersections. You'll soon see an orange and white construction barrier and scaffolding on your right. At the next intersection you get to, turn right. A green building and scaffolding will now be on your right after you turn. At the point where the scaffolding ends, turn to the left to see a light-colored building with several red doors and arched doorways. There is an American flag by the last door. Touchdown is sitting on the stars of the flag.  Go WITH traffic to the light and RIGHT. Go RIGHT at the SECOND light. You should be on a narrow one-way cobblestone street with red brick buildings on either side. Go just past the tree on the sidewalk on your right, and the lamp post after it and stop.

To your left is a hydrant; find Touchdown on its white cap. With the scaffolding to your left, head straight and take an immediate left. Go straight through the intersection with orange windowing to the left and past a bright red football pitch to the right. There is an open gate to the right. Touchdown is in the opening. Go with the flow of traffic. At the first intersection, go straight.  When you get to the next intersection, turn left.  There will be a yellow signage on the business to your left.  Go to the next intersection and turn left again.  There's a banner over the street that has dragons on it. Go to the next intersection and turn left again. Touchdown will be at the end of the scaffolding on your right.  He'll be at the base of the last scaffolding pole. Start walking in the direction of traffic, passing a pile of garbage bags on your right. You will come to an intersection with construction on it. Make a right here. You will pass a small fruit cart with an umbrella on top. Right after that you will see an intersection, on which you can make a right. You'll see a bus stop on your right. Keep going, and stop a little bit before the next intersection. You should see a clothing store with mannequins on your right, and a store with a red banner on your left. Turn to your right again, and notice the garbage bag at the base of the light sign post, to the left of the green sign post. Touchdown is sitting on top of that garbage bag.  Turn so the traffic light is right in front of you, and so that the store with the red heart in its name is to your left. Walk forward. If you can't go forward from that position, take one step to the left and then go forward. Stop when you get to the intersection that has the big poster of a man kissing a bowling ball on your front-right. Turn right at that intersection. Stop when on your left you can see a building that has a thick yellow and a thinner orange stripe on its inside wall. There is also a bike near it. Touchdown is in the center of the front wheel of the bike.  From your starting point, please turn around so that the bus stop is on your right and the crosswalk is behind you.  You should see a bridge straight ahead.  Walk forward until you are standing in an intersection just before you walk under that bridge.  

Turn to your right at this intersection.  You should now be walking between two rows of diagonally-parked cars, with the bridge now running parallel, on your left.  Walk down this road, keeping the bridge on your left.  

Ignore the first side street off to your left, and just keep walking next to the bridge, toward the crosswalk up ahead.  

Walk right over the crosswalk, and keep going forward so that those orange barrels and the orange-and-white crane are on your left.  Keep walking forward a little bit further until you come to the T-intersection at the end of this street.  

Turn right at this intersection.  There should be an orange box on the sidewalk up ahead on the right, and several lanes of traffic on your left, behind concrete barriers.  Walk forward a short distance, and stop as soon as you have gone past that orange box.  

You should now be in the right spot to find the bear.  Turn around and look back behind you.  You should see a black fire hydrant, with a silver cap, on the sidewalk, behind the box.  Touchdown is sitting right on top of the silver cap of that hydrant.
 Stand so you are moving with traffic. Follow traffic straight to the light and turn left. Now pass the shops with clothes hanging on your right, and continue until the light and take another left. Move straight through the first intersection and then pass the yellow store sign on your right.  At the next (3-way) intersection, take the left turn. Move halfway past the row of blue bikes and stop. On the left is a pale green awning. Tuchdown is on the side of the awning closest to you. Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. A dark red building with a red and blue awning should be to your left. Pass through the intersection in front of you, and take a left at the next one (which should be a three-way).

2. A brick building with off-white columns and a gray and blue awning should be on your right. You should be able to see a walkway above the street in the distance.

3. Pass under the walkway and through the three-way intersection immediately after it. Your destination is very close.

4. On the right, you should see a few traffic cones behind a white and blue van. Stop when you're even with the last of the traffic cones and the blue, rectangular speech bubble on the side of the van.

5. To the left of the speech bubble is a picture of a man with a blue helmet. Touchdown is in the middle of the white logo on the helmet.

Good luck! :) Turn and face the same direction as traffic and see the intersection just ahead.

Continue straight through that intersection and come to the traffic light directly after.

Turn left onto that narrow side street and go straight ahead.

Disregard everything on either side of you, and travel directly to the traffic light.

Turn left at this light

See the blue bikes to your right side and the small park just behind it.
 Move forward paying attention to your left and see a grey vertical post with a horizontal yellow stripe on the sidewalk, it is flanked by two trees.

Stop just past this post and look behind and find Touchdown sitting on the grey post 



 Turn and go with the flow of traffic go past the stop sign and make a right at the first traffic light. Turn right at the next light Go down this road to the second traffic light and turn right As soon as your turn you will see a fire hydrant on your right.Touchdown is sitting at the base of the fire hydrant Turn so the building that is light colored on the first floor then is red brick above is on the right corner ahead of you. Go straight down this road. There should be long green awnings on your left and a small green awning on the right. At the first intersection make a left turn. On the left side is a dirty faded green awning and on the right there is some vibrant green on the building. Go straight to the end of this block. Make a left turn and go straight one block. At the intersection make a left turn. Go a very short distance then stop while you are still in the intersection. You should see blue bikes on the left up ahead. Look on the corner that is on your right. There is a long green awning that stretches towards the street. On this corner is a green trashcan. Touchdown is on top of that trash can.  With the green temporary wall to your left, go straight. Go all the way to the first intersection (almost). There should be a narrow red post to your left. Touchdown is sitting on it. You will be in the middle of the intersection. Turn yourself so that you will go down the street with the orange barriers on the left side. Then turn left at the next intersection. It is only a 1 lane street. Fencing on both sides. Go straight at the next intersection.  There will be a blue awning on the left and dumpster on the right. Before you get to the next intersection on the right will be a gray hydrant Touchdown is sitting on top.  Turn and go forward down the street that has the scaffolding on the left side of the road. There will be a green boarded-up section on the right side. You will end up facing a large set of windows on a storefront. You will want to turn and face towards the intersection again and go straight through. There will be bushes in square pots on the left side of the road. You will pass by an alleyway on the left side continue to go straight past it. At the intersection with traffic lights please turn right. On the left will have tables and chairs with some four umbrellas on the right side of the street. At the next intersection, you will want to turn right. After turning right, there is white and black box along the wall on the left side near the green building. You'll find the touchdown on the top of that box on the white. Orient yourself so you are moving against the flow of traffic.  After leaving the tunnel, you will see a break in the line of cones on the right.  Veer right here to move to the right side of the road and go up the ramp.  At the top of this ramp, turn right.  At the next intersection that has construction up ahead, turn left, but stay in the intersection.  Touchdown is hiding back where the construction is on the front yellow corner of the red dumpster. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and take the off ramp to the right ahead.  The road will split again and you want to stay right.  Continue down the ramp to the first intersection and go right.  There should be scaffolding on your left and a playground on your right.  Go forward a bit until you're almost to the bus stop on the right side of the road.  Touchdown is hiding under the bench at the bus stop. Turn yourself so that you are facing the direction the cars are facing and walk straight. If you're oriented correctly, the construction work should be on your right hand side. 

Walk until you get to an intersection. A red and black shop should be across the street to your left. Turn right at this intersection.

Walk straight until you get to another intersection. Across the street should be more construction, with green walls up. 

Go through the intersection, but as you come to the middle, you should see the construction with the orange and white barriers to the left of you, and a sidewalk divider to the right. On that piece of sidewalk is an orange and white traffic object. Touchdown is sitting at the bottom of this object. 
 Align yourself so the graffiti'd construction barriers are on your left. Head up to the intersection to make a right. You'll make a right shortly after.

Head straight through the next intersection, you should pass a red dumpster on your right as you go straight through. Ignore the left turn up ahead. Go straight ahead at the second left turn as well. Shortly after should be a red/brown building on your right with loading docks and yellow poles out front. Touchdown is sitting on the middle yellow pole. Go with traffic up the street with scaffolding and k-walls to the left and more scaffolding on the right. Go right at the light.  Go through the next light, and stop well before the next one, when you're even with the third to last of the long black windows of the very red stone building on the right.

Ahead and to your right, is a small grey box on the street light. Touchdown sits atop it. Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street.  Go forward until you reach an intersection, and turn right.  You'll have a shop with a red and white striped awning on your left after you turn.  Go forward until the next intersection, and make another right.  On this block you'll have a building on your right with smooth white/gray panels along the walls.  Keep watching on your right side as you go down this block.  You'll pass a building with lots of ivy.  Then you'll see a building with a white flag with a blue circle on it.  Stop when you're even with the flag.  The bear is in the center of the white doors on the building with the flag.   Stand so you are following the flow of traffic. Go to the first intersection and take a left. Then take another left at the next light. Move past the row of small blue awnings/window covers on your right. Then on your left are 3 gray columns with small round white circle signs with red on them. Touchdown is on the middle sign. Head down the street the way traffic and park cars are facing. Turn right at first intersection, their should be a school xing mark painted on the right side of the street if you are going the correct way.  Turn right at next intersection.  Continue past a wrought iron fence on your right.  You should also pass gray painted bricks and iron door covering on your right.  An awning leading to a below street entrance will be on your left as you continue.  Continue until use see another school xing painted on the road.  Just past that point on your left will be a solid brown door.  Touchdown is sitting in front of the door on the sidewalk.. Turn so the colorful mural is to your right. Head down this street with traffic. At the traffic light take a right. Go all the way down this street. Take a right. You will see a mailbox covered in graffiti and newsprint on your right. Head down this street straight. After the mural of the woman with red lipstick take another right. Go straight until yo see 2 white porta-potties in the median. On the sidewalk to the right you will see a tree with boards around it. Touchdown is sitting in front of the tree between the curb and the base of the tree.  Face against traffic.  Go straight for a little while, then take your first right.  There will be a street painting on your left.  Continue, and take the next right.  Then take the next right.  Take a couple of steps and look back and left.  The bear is on the messy mailbox. Turn and go in the same direction as traffic. Go straight through the intersection, seeing the white sign with red dots ahead on your right. At the same intersection as this sign, go right. Go straight ahead, though you will have to change lanes a bit. You will soon see a gold colored storefront ahead to your left. When you are almost to it, notice a sculpture of a hand holding a sign on the building just before it. Stand directly in front of that hand, facing it. It is wearing a ring. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of that ring.  face the same direction as the flow of traffic. Go straight making a right at the first intersection. the center divide of the street will have a row of trees. go straight and make a right at the next intersection. after making a right you will be on a shadier street with a darker building on your right and a lighter building on your left. Head straight to the end of the block and make another right. after you make a right, head straight towards the end of this block, there will be some trees on your right side along the way. once you reach the end of the block, touchdown will be in front of the black fire hydrant on your left. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
You should see scaffolding on the right.
Go straight through the next intersection and you should pass a business on the right that has a bright green sign with 2 letters in a box.  Keep going forward.
As you approach the next intersection, look to your right and you should see a business that has a green neon food item on their sign above a white and orange umbrella.

Touchdown is on this green food item. Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Head to the nearest intersection.  Turn right.  There will be a house with statues out front pass them to the next intersection, pass the first option for a right turn in that intersection, and take the next one.  Stay straight and then turn right.  There are a few bags of trash on the right.  Stop and look at them.  The bear is at the base of the black pole that is touching the bags. Turn and go with the traffic. Tables and chairs outside on the left under a green and white striped awning. At the intersection turn left. A green store to the right. Turn left at next intersection. A painted burdundy and gray building with yellow sign to the right. Right past this  Stop at the burgundy awning with a green sign above it on the right. Touchdown is sitting on top of the red, blue and white stripped pole sitting right of the big tree and left of the white chair.  Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Head to the nearest intersection.  Turn left.  You will see a ladder on your left.  Pass it and go to the next intersection, turn left.  Continue to the next intersection, and turn left.  There is a building with 3 black flags on your right.  Pass this building.  Immediately after you pass it there is a green mailbox on your right on the back of the sidewalk.  The bear is on top. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the clear trash bags on your right, Continue straight until you reach the intersection and take a left, You should see a green bike lane to your left and a store with a green awning on your right, Continue straight to the next intersection and take a left, You should see some blue trash bags on your left and several yellow-green traffic cones, Continue to the next intersection did you should see a store with several plants outside on the left side, take a left turn, Continue straight until the diamond sign with the red octagon and the black arrow is to your left,Turn to your right and you will see three white planters in a row, click the middle white planter to find touchdown. Orient yourself so that the red and yellow awning is in front of you. Turn right and go straight. Then turn right at the next intersection so that a market with a blue cloud motif is on your right. Go forward and turn right at the next intersection. Keep going forward until the fencing on your left ends. There should be a large plant on your right. The touch down is on the red and white sign next to the plant.  Stand so that the green scaffolding is to your right. Move forward to the intersection and turn left. Soon on your left is a tall silver gate in front of the brick building. Touchdown is on the red door behind the start of the gate. Turn with the flow of traffic and head to the nearest intersection.  Then turn left. Then take the next left.   Pass the wooden structure on your left and continue.  Pass the van with the barricade on the right.  Then look right.  There is a door with a decorative arch and fancy decor above it.  It looks like a Christmas wreath with a square in it.  The bear is in the square.   Go with traffic flow where the American flags are to your left. At the first intersection, turn right.
Still going with traffic flow, go to the next intersection and turn right. Once you turn, you will see lighted trees to your left. Continue down this street a ways. 
When you come to the next street, find yourself in the middle of the intersection so you have a choice of which way to go. If you turn yourself around to look at the construction scaffolding that was behind you to your left, you will see a blue mailbox on the corner. Touchdown is on top of the mailbox. Move foward in the direction traffic is movinguntil you see the turn arrows but don't turn. Head straight down this road. There will be green scaffolding on your right side and store with blue signs on the left side. You will go straight through the 3 way intersection. When you come to the first 4 way intersection you will turn right. On your right side is a building that is light colored and has no windows at all on the corner. On the left is a lot of green scaffolding. Go straight a short distance until you are at the last part of the green scaffolding on the left. Touchdown is on the ground  at the base of the scaffolding pole that is closest to the street. Follow traffic to the light and go left, in the leftmost lane walk until you're past the Jersey walls on your right and go through the intersection to stand on the crosswalk on the other side. Turn to face right, and you'll be looking up the sidewalk, which has orange metal fencing to the right, from your perspective.  There's a green metal box with a small green nipple on top, attached to the traffic pole.

Touchdown is sitting on the little light green nipple on top of the green metal box. Turn so the intersection is right in front of you. Turn left at this intersection. 

Go down to the next corner and turn left. When you turn there is a yellowish cream colored building on your left with a dumpster in front of it. Go to the next corner and turn left.  When you turn there is a tan building with pillars on your left and gray pillars on the right.

Go to the next corner and turn left. 
There is a light gray building on the left immediately followed by a red brick building on the left with gray trim. Go past this building. 
Look to the right to see a dark yellow building with black trim and large red numbers in the window. Go past this building.  
Then there is a white front building on the right followed by a black front building on the right. Just past the black building on the right is a hydrant on the sidewalk that Touchdown is on top of.


 Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Go forward a bit and you'll be in the intersection; turn right. Then pass straight through 2 intersections. At the 3rd, turn right. You'll soon come to green scaffolding on your right. Face across from it, and there is a blue structure used for raising people up high. Touchdown is on top of the middle of it. Face the nearest intersection, with the two purple signs on the building to your right and quickly make a right at the traffic light. Pass the two purple signs, fenced in school yard with parked cars on your right and make a right at the first intersection. Continue down the street, passing the fenced in school yard with parked cars on your right and make your last right at the intersection. You will now be on the opposite side of the school yard fence. Move forward and stop when you are halfway past that fence, before reach the building connected to it. On your left, Touchdown will be on the black fire hydrant in front of the red building. Turn to go the same way as traffic. Go forward until you reach the first intersection and turn left. Move to the next intersection and take another left. As you go down this street, you will see some trees planted in the sidewalk on the right. Touchdown is at the base of the trunk of the 3rd tree where it meets the grate.  Stand with the big brick apartment buildings on your right, and the brick building with a blue awning ahead on your left. Move forward in this direction for a long stretch. You will pass on your left a large white building with a green fence around it, and then walk straight through an intersection. Then when the road just starts to curve left, just before the next intersection, stop. Ahead of you in the middle of the road is a white sign with a curved black arrow on the streetlight pole. Touchdown is on that white sign. Going with the flow of traffic, stay close to the wall to your right.  Follow the curve around, and into a tunnel. Keep going until you see the other traffic from your right.  You'll go under the lights above you and then look to your left for a sign on a brick building that has a yellow car on it.  Touchdown is on the yellow car on that sign. You need to follow the street that says ONLY BUS in the right hand lane. There's a pizza place on the right. Follow this road until you get to the intersection then make a right. You will now being going down the wrong way. There's a bunch of trees that overhang on the road. You will come up to the blue bikes on the left and you will see the parking thing on the right with the white thing next to it. Your touchdown is going to be the top center of the blue parking thing.  Go with traffic to the end of the block and go right. Scaffolding will be on your left. Go straight through the stop signs, passing a black building to your right on the other side of the street.  Go right at the next set of stop signs.

Go through the next intersection and stop just at the crosswalk on the other side: If you rotate right, you should be looking straight down the sidewalk.  Rotate left, and you should see two construction barrels.  Look down the left sidewalk. There's a white capped hydrant, on top of which sits Touchdown. From your starting point, please turn around so that the intersection is behind you.  A shop with a light beige border and large red letters should be on your right.  Walk up this road and stop in between the first pair of crosswalks you come to. 

Turn to your right here, and start walking down the narrow road.  You should see another section of that beige border with red letters on your right, and a red storefront on your left.  

Just take this narrow road all the way to a T-intersection where it ends.  Turn right at this intersection.  You should see a low green fence on your left, and a row of orange and white construction barriers on your right.  Walk down the lane between these two things, following a green bike lane on your left.  

Ignore the first side-street on your right, and just keep going forward a bit further.  You will see a white poster on the left-hand sidewalk up ahead with a photo of a woman on it.  Walk forward, go past that poster, and stop on the other side of that small white section.  Look to the left-hand sidewalk, and you should be standing right next to a white poster in a window, with blue lettering.  Touchdown is sitting on the middle of the top edge of this poster. On your right should be a building with green stairs and a green fence. On the left is a building with a blue fence. Go straight into the intersection. Now make a right. Continue to the next intersection, and make right. Now go straight. When you reach the intersection make a right. Continue straight for a short distance. On the right you will see a building with red signs with yellow writing. You will also see a bunch of graffiti. Touchdown is sitting on the top step of the building with the yellow writing. Orient yourself in the direction of traffic and take a left at the first intersection. Go straight past the hospital to your right and then take a left when you see a gate in front of you. Go down the small side street then take a right. There is a mailbox with graffiti on it to your left. Touchdown is on top of it. Stand so you are moving on the street that curves right, just ahead of you. Follow this street as it curves right. At the first intersection, turn right. There will be another opportunity to turn just after you go right; don't turn but continue straight.

Continue on this road; you'll come to an opportunity to veer right. Do so, and then the road will veer right again. You'll then come to an intersection. On your left is a blue mailbox. Touchdown is on top. You need to orient yourself so that you are moving with traffic. Move in this direction, passing construction barriers and then a row of bikes to your left, until you reach the light. Turn right. Now you should be passing a long red awning on your right.

Continue until the next light, where you will turn right again (just after a red dumpster). You should now pass green awnings on your right. Continue until you pass green scaffolding on your right, shortly followed by a colorful flag. Then there is a section of blue brick wall with white brick areas. There is a single blue door with a small white sign. Touchdown is on the small white sign. Use the left arrow to proceed straight into the intersection, and then turn left. Travel straight through one intersection and turn left at the second intersection. There is a subway entrance below a diner on your right. Proceed straight down the one-way street between white vans on either side and move through an intersection without a light. Stay to the left as you approach a street to your right. At the intersection with a stop sign where you can only turn left, stop at the end of the street. Touchdown is on the middle of the left stop sign.  Begin moving with the flow of traffic. There are gray and blue trash bins directly to your left and you can see a yellow scooter parked up ahead on your right. Go to the intersection just ahead and turn right. After you turn, there's a yellow newspaper stand on your right and vegetables for sale under a green awning up ahead on your left. 

At the next intersection, turn right. Now, there are flowers for sale on your left. A short distance ahead, there's a motorcycle parked on the right side of the road and a bicycle on the sidewalk beside it.  Pass that and look for the American flag ahead on your right. Touchdown is placed on the blue and white section of the flag.  Follow the flow of traffic with the blue logo on your right and make a right at the second intersection. There will now be scaffolding to your left with a line of plants and make a right at the first traffic light. There will now be a black clock with a white face on your left and potted trees on your right. Continue down this street and stop after passing the first intersection but before reaching the second one. On your left there is a lamppost with a green banner, Touchdown is on the center of that green banner. With the scaffolding on your right, follow the flow of traffic and make a left at the first intersection. Continue past the green store sign with the big red letters on your right and make a left at the first intersection. You should now have a green underground entrance on your left and a red awning on your right. Continue down the street and stop after passing the blue awning and reaching the middle of the green scaffolding on your left. Touchdown is on the fire hydrant under the scaffolding on your left. With the white lit entrance to your left, go straight and take a left around the colored roof. Take a left and go straight until reaching the next intersection. To your right there is a purple shape with two purple squares flanking it. Touchdown is in this shape. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
You should see scaffolding ahead on the right and orange/white barriers on the left.
Turn right at the next intersection.  There is a wooden structure to your left with a blue awning.  Touchdown is on the blue awning.

 Go in the same direction as traffic.  Move forward to the first intersection. Turn left.   There will be a striped building on your right.  Go to the next intersection; turn left again.  There will be a building made mostly of glass on your right.  Go down this street, wathcing for some dark scaffolding on your right.  After this scaffolding, on your left will be a brick building with big arched windows with white wood frames.  Pass all but one of these white, arched windows.  Turn to your right.  There is a building on the right painted in gray and white.  Above the narrow, arched doorway is a white keystone.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this keystone.   Follow traffic, with the median on your left, and go left at the light, just enough you're standing with the median with red flowers to your left.  You should be staring into oncoming traffic, and a building with a red sign band with blue text should be on the left corner of the direction you're looking.

Touchdown is center atop the trash can on the left corner. Turn until you see construction on your right.  Now go straight down the road while the construction is still on your right. Go the the end of the street and turn right on the first right at the intersection. Go down the street until you see a road on your right. Turn down that road. There should be a white van on the right now. Keep going down that street a little until you see a children playing caution sign on your left. The bear is on the center of the sign.  Put the garage on your right and head out of the tunnel.  Take the first right.  Then take the next right (Under the bridge).  Continue to the end of the first set of barricades on the left.  The bear is on top of the barrel at the end (Click on the little circle on the left). Move with the flow of traffic, passing the blue awnings on your right, until the first intersection; turn left. Now move ahead past scaffolding on your right until the next intersection, and turn left again. 

 Move between the trees to the next intersection and take another left. Move down this block until you get close to the next intersection. Ahead on your right, before you get too close to the intersection, is a gray post with a blue stripe near the top. Touchdown is on top of the post. It is near the farthest tree on your right.

 Follow the cars and walk into the intersection.  Turn right at that first intersection.  Walk forward to the next intersection.  Turn right.  It is a hard turn, you will go under a bridge.  Continue forward.  As you are almost out from under the bridge look to your left.  You will see a little bit of yellow from a guard rail.  The bear is on the yellow part. Face the traffic light, with the scaffolding to your left, go forward passing the line of blue city bikes on your left, and turn right. Pass the brown building with the purple sign on you right and continue down the street, making a right at the intersection. Pass the red store sign on your left and stop. On your right, there will be white columns on the brick building, Touchdown will be on the ground in front of the white framed doors. Orient yourself with traffic on the one way road. At the end of the block, take a right and another right at the next intersection down the one way street. You'll approach a construction zone. About halfway down the block, you'll see a blue awning on the right over a boarded up store with graffiti on the wall. Touchdown is on the middle of the blue awning over the numbers of the address.  Begin moving with the flow of traffic, so the blue rental bikes on your right. At the traffic light just up ahead, turn left. After you turn, there will be scaffolding on your left and a bus stop  on your right. 

Go straight through the first intersection, and when you get to the second one, turn left. Now, there will be a building with a lot of windows on your right and a few red signs in a row on your left. 

Soon, there will be green scaffolding on your right. Shortly after the scaffolding ends, there will be a business with glass doors on your right and a large potted plant on either side. Touchdown is sitting on the very top of the plant closest to you, so on your right side, if you are standing directly in front of the door.  Orient yourself with traffic and proceed forward. Stop in the intersection when you are in the bus only lane. Ahead and to your right is a city information digital terminal. Touchdown is on the orange and yellow symbol displayed. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Turn right at the next intersection.  Once you turn, you will see a very blue colored store to your right.  Go down this street and turn right at the very next intersection.
Once you make that turn, you should have a business with a blue awning that wraps around the corner on your left and a hydrant with an orange cone next to it on the right.  Go straight down this road.

Go for a ways and past at least one intersection.  Keep an eye on the left and you should eventually see a business that has a white sign and what looks like a heart in a paw on it in gold.  Touchdown is in the middle of the symbol on that sign.

 Follow traffic into the light and go right. Go right again at the next light. Pass through the subsequent two lights, but stop short of passing the crosswalk by two steps on the second.

To your left, under the scaffolding, is a square black kiosk with posters on the sides. Touchdown is center atop it. Turn so your facing the intersection. You will take one step and be in the intersection. Turn Left, you will see some construction barriers on your left. Go one block and at the very next intersection go left again. Go about half a block or so and you will see another orange barricade on your left. There will be some tarps covering construction stuff and scaffolding. At the beginning of the barricade, there is an orange safety light. The touchdown is on top of the bulb.  Face the two red octagon shaped signs and move past them into the intersection where you want to turn right.  There will be a red awning on your right, go forward to the next intersection and turn right again.  One you do, you should see scaffolding on your left.
Past the scaffolding, go straight through the next intersection.  At the next intersection, turn right.  You will see a white flag with purple on it hanging on the left side.  Go straight through the next intersection to the crosswalk and you should have construction staging on the right.  Stop at the cross walk and on your right is 3 beat up orange/white large cone barriers.  Touchdown is hiding on top of the middle one. From your starting point, please turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  You should see a dark gray canopy over a door directly ahead of you on the right.  Walk forward down this road until you come to an intersection.  

Turn left at this intersection.  You should see a banner hanging from a lamppost on the right side of a wide, one-way road.  Up ahead are bright yellow triangle-shaped signs on both sides of the road.  Walk up this road until you come to another intersection.  

Turn left at this intersection.  You should be facing down a narrow lane with cars parked on both sides.  On the left should be scaffolding with a green canopy, and on the right should be a shopfront with small red letters.  Walk down this narrow lane.

When you pass the red-walled house on the right with the white door, you are about halfway there, so keep an eye out for landmarks.  

Pass a yellow diamond-shaped sign, and then a dark green mailbox with graffiti.  Continue walking with the scaffolding on your right, and pass a red canopy with some white letters above a doorway (under the scaffolding).  

Move past the end of the scaffolding, but stop just in front of a large cargo box with a blue tarp.  Look to your left here, and you should see a small red and white sign on a dark lamppost.  Touchdown is sitting right above the top edge of this small sign.   From your starting point, please turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  Directly in front of you, you should see two white arrows painted on the road surface.  Walk forward and you will take the off ramp.  Just keep moving forward until you come to a fork in the road with some yellow and black barrels.  

Bear to the right here, so that the barrels are on your left as you pass.  Then just keep walking straight, and you move down an incline, to street level.  

Walk forward, past some large white letters and arrows on the road surface, and then stop in the middle of the intersection just in front of them.  

Turn to your right in this intersection.  You should see scaffolding on your left, and a bus stop up ahead on your right.  Move forward, pass the bus stop and look to your right.  Move forward until you are looking directly down the pedestrian walkway with black fences and grass on both sides.  You should also see a small blue sign on top of a pole on the sidewalk.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this blue circular sign. Go with traffic. Go straight at the first intersection. Green scaffolding will be on the left. Turn right at the next intersection. Look left and stop almost at the end of the last set of green scaffolding before the next intersection. Stop directly next to the down white doors. There is a bike to the left of the white doors. Touchdown is sitting on the bike seat. Orient yourself in which there is an orange awning on your right. Pass the orange awning and you should arrive at an intersection. Make a left turn at the intersection. Once you made a left turn, pass the dark red awning on your right, a scaffolding on your left, and a blue awning on your right. Once you pass the blue awning, up ahead is a brown building on your right with a few bicycle parked on a pole. Don't go pass the bicycle. The touchdown is sitting inside the crate attached to the bike. Face the street that has the white letters with the red boomerang logo on your right and move forward until you are directly next to it. Now take a left, and orient yourself so the red swoosh logo is behind. There should now be a blue store sign on your right, continue on down that street, passing the park on your left, through the first intersection and make a left at the second intersection. There should now be a brick building with triangular windows on your left. Go forward and make a left at the intersection, keeping the triangle windows on your left. Stop when you see the black awning before the red doors on your right. Touchdown will be on the center front of that awning. Follow the brick paved road. (there is a woman and child walking on it)
Turn right at the first intersection.
Turn right again at the next intersection. 
Turn right for the last time at the next intersection.
On the right, you will see a bus stop with yellow cation tape all around it. (move slight pass this.)
There is a woman standing outside a children's clothing store, wearing a black jacket and winter hat. 
Touchdown is directly on the woman's purse. 

 turn to go with traffic, there will be a building with scaffolding on your right, you will pass a large blue trash dumpster before you get to the intersection, At the intersection turn left. You will again have scaffolding the building to your right. Follow the street to the next intersection, take a left, to your left is a fire hydrant , the bear is on the fire hydrant Orient yourself so that you are facing the same direction as the traffic. There should be a parking garage on your left. Continue to the first intersection and turn left. You should see metal scaffolding on your right. Continue to the next intersection. Turn left again. You should see more construction stuff on your right and a black and yellow arrow on a fence. Follow the direction of the arrow. Keep going past the green fence and the yellow and red sign on your right. Stop when you see a set of blue doors on your left. Touchdown is in the bottom left corner of the window to the right of the doors. Orient yourself with traffic, proceed, and turn left at the light. Turn left at the next light too. Make another left at the next light as well. Make one last left at the next light to complete a loop route. Stop when you are past the first awning on the right sidewalk. Touchdown is on the central oval shape over the door with this first awning. Turn around and face the intersection that is near you. Enter it and veer to the left. You should be entering a narrow one way street. Once on the street, you will immediately pass a white painted brick wall with 3 arched doorways on your left. Walk past it. At the end of the street, go left. Immediately pass a red and white striped storefront awning on your right. Walk ahead. Enter the large intersection and go down the road just to the left of the corner red brick store with a painting of 2 slices of pizza under a pair of glasses over it's window. You will be on a narrow one way street with orange and white barrier walls lining the street on the left. Walk past them. Go left at the next intersection, but stop just after you enter the street. Turn and look to your left. You will see an iron fence along the walkway, and a red post with stickers on it by a sign post. Touchdown is sitting directly on top of that red post.  With the black fence to your right and bridge to your left, go forward, through the stop signs, to the light. Go left and immediately left again, so that now you have the median to your left and the bridge to your right.

Stop just before the concrete barriers start on your left. Rotate left.

Past the white bollards in the middle of the street, you can see a yellow bollard to the left of a white sign on the ground. Touchdown is atop the bollard. Start by orienting yourself in the direction of traffic, then move straight until you reach the first intersection. You should see a building with a green awning in front of you. 

At this intersection, you will turn left. When turning correctly, you will see a building with a beige awning with gold characters written on it. Continue straight down this road. 

When you come to the first intersection, you will need to make a U-turn. Turn left,  but continue down the same road you were just on from the other side, following the direction of traffic. When you are oriented correctly, you should see the big glass building on your right. 

Walk straight until you come to the next intersection. As you cross the intersection, you should see a building with yellow and red awnings. In front of this building is a metal trashcan with a white trash bag sitting in front of it. Touchdown is at the bottom of this trash bag.
 Orient yourself so that you are in the middle of the intersection (you need to step over into the intersection), and then stand with the blue mailbox (in front of scaffolding) ahead to your right. Continue in this direction to the next intersection and turn left. Now on your left is a green mailbox. Move down this street until you come to scaffolding on your right. Just before the start of scaffolding is a small white sign with red writing on a pole. Touchdown is on the sign. Position yourself so the construction zone is on your right and move with the flow of traffic. Go straight through the first intersection, and stop when you get to the crosswalk of the second one. As you can see, there are a lot of streets in various directions at this intersection. You want to end up traveling in the direction you just came from, but on the street directly to your right. Your current street, and the one you want to be on come to a point and there's a gray pole with a yellow stripe there. So, move forward into the intersection, and when you have the chance to turn, do so. This will put rental bikes on your left.

Go straight to the third intersection. There will be tables and chairs outside a restaurant on your right when you get there. Turn right. Pass the motorcycle and scooter parked on the left side of the road. Look for the building on the right that is a rose color with an arched black door and white trimmed windows. The black fire escape is hanging in a way that the bottom rung is in line with the top of the door. Touchdown is sitting on the bottom rung of that fire escape.  Hello. Please orient yourself so that the scaffolding with green awning and yellow striped barriers are to your left. You will be facing an intersection.

Walk forward, straight across the three-way intersection. 
There will a median with tress to your right. 

At the next four-way intersection, please stop in the center.

Re-orient yourself by turning your view to the right. 
You will be staring across the intersection down a narrow path. There is a gray building with cream accents and a black gate to the left. There is a red brick building with black accents to the right and orange cones lining the right side.

Head straight all the way through this intersection into that path.
You will see orange and white barriers along with scaffolding to the right side. 

Walk forward, passing by orange construction barriers to the right side until you reach a four-way intersection. Stop when you reach the center of the intersection. Walk forward very slightly. Stop before the dark bricks on the path with a manhole cover to the right. 

Look up to your left near the scaffolding. On the corner of the sidewalk, there is a gray pole with a green box attached. There is a bright orange sign with black letters.

Touchdown will be in the center of the orange sign. Good luck! Turn with the flow of cars.  You are behind a bright green car.  Follow it.  Continue through the next intersection (You will lose the green car).  Keep walking to the next intersection.  Turn left.  Follow ice cream.  When the white car gets between you and the ice cream stop.  The bear is on the white cars yellow license plate. Head towards the two stop signs. Turn right at the end of the street. Go straight. Turn right at the intersection. Go straight. Pass the BUMP in the road. Turn right at the intersection. Stop where there is a shop with a grey striped awning to your right. There are two potted plants on the window ledge. Touchdown is on the pot on the left. turn so you are going with traffic. There is a triangular median with potted plants that will be on your left. Go straight at the light ahead and also the one after that.At the next light take a left. There will be a yellow sign and red awning on the store to your right. Go straight about halfway down the street and stop  the delivery beside the truck with it's back door open on the left side of the street. Touchdown is sitting on the first light you come to on the orange and white barrier on the left side of the street.  Align yourself with the flow of traffic, and head straight past the intersection following the same small street you started on. Head straight through the next intersection as well, and right after an empty lot with parked cars in it, you'll see a moped directly in front of you. Touchdown is on the headlight of the moped. Follow traffic through the light, with the green stripe on the asphalt to your left.  At the next light, continue straight, but stop just before reaching the crosswalk on the opposite side.

Immediately in front of you to your left is a large red sign with a white arrow at the bottom. Touchdown is impaled on the tip of the arrow. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and the silver fencing is ahead on the right.
Head all the way down to the intersection and turn right.  When you do you should see a very tall all glass building on the left out in the distance.
Head forward and turn right at the next intersection, after which, you will see green awnings on your left.
 Go forward passing the playground on your right and you're almost near the white trash bags on the ground on the right side of the road.  There is a pole in the middle of the trash bags.  Touchdown is on the red and white sign hanging from that pole. Enter the intersection and turn left.  Then take the next left.  You will be on this next road a while.  Stop in the crosswalk of the next intersection.  Look right.  There is a broom under the vendor cart.  The bear is on the bristles    Orient yourself with traffic and proceed to turn left at the intersection. Turn left again at the next intersection. Keep the park on your right. At the next intersection, turn left. Stop when the bus stop in on your right. Touchdown is sitting on the center seat of the bus stop bench. Go with traffic, keeping the orange and white striped construction barrier to your right. Go left at the intersection, and left again at the following one. There will be a chain link fenced area to your left. Passing the chain link, see an orange awning ahead to your left. Pass it and stop just after passing the navy blue one after it. Turn to face the buildings on your left, standing between the blue awning and a green one. Touchdown is on top of the brown mail box right in front of you, top and center.  Proceed down the road with some green scaffolding to your right. Go straight, passing an intersection to your right. Proceed and take a left at the intersection with a green trash can to your left. Proceed straight until hitting an intersection with two flanking stop signs. Take a right, then a left onto the open street with two pointy towers in the distance. Go straight until hitting some green roofed scaffolding to the left. Touchdown is sitting on the left office chair to the left. Orient yourself in the direction of traffic with the bulk of the trees to your left and go through the first intersection. There are now curtains to the right; take a right after them. There is scaffolding to the right; go past it. Take a right at the intersection and go straight. There is a fire hydrant shortly after the color of the bike lane changes to the right. Touchdown is on the hydrant. Move with traffic, passing the lighter blue awning on your left. Move straight through the first intersection, followed by yellow signs on both sides of you. Continue past the bright red building on your left. At the next intersection, turn right. Now you are again moving with traffic and you should have scaffolding on your right. At the end of that scaffolding, before the next intersection, there is a yellow newspaper stand. Touchdown is on top of that yellow structure. Turn so you are moving with traffic, there is a gated park on your left. Go straight through the 1st intersection, at the second there is a store front on your left with toys in it, take a left at this intersection. You will now be on a one way street moving with traffic, you will pass a building on the left that is white on the bottom and yellow on top, keep moving straight, you will pass scaffolding on your left and some orange and white construction barriers.  Just past that on your left is a home with green walls up around their stairs for contruction, one of the walls has a white sign on it, the bear is on that sign With the soccer field to your right, go straight. Making sure that you don't veer to the right.  (you don't want to take the exit)  Keep going until you  see a large basketball court to your right.  Touchdown is on the center back of the second basketball goal.   Turn so you are facing in the same direction as the cars and have the playground structures to your right. Move forward to the end of the block.

When you get to the first intersection, turn left. You should pass a bus shelter on your right. 

Just before the first intersection on this road, stop and look left. There will be a business with a red sign and blue writing on the corner closest to you. There is a shop with orange and brown awning and posters of food in the windows on the other corner. In front of the food store on the curb there are boxes - yellow, red, green, and orange. Touchdown is on top of the yellow box. Orient yourself with traffic on the one way street. Continue down the long block and take a right at the first intersection. Continue straight through two intersections and take a left at the third, going against traffic and between orange cones on either side. There is a flower shop on the right side of the corner. Take just one step so you are next to the flower shop. There is a bicycle tied to the sign on the right beside the phone booth. Touchdown is on the seat of the bike.  With the basketball court and playground on your right, proceed to the intersection and take a right.  At the next intersection, take a right. Go to the next intersection and take another right.  On the left hand side there will be a fruit stand.  Look for the striped umbrella, Touchdown is hiding on the top of the umbrella. Turn so that you're walking with traffic and have a trash can on the sidewalk to your right. Go to the next intersection, then turn right and continue forward until the next intersection. Cross the intersection and stop by the store with the yellow awning. There's a fire hydrant on the sidewalk next to that store. Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant. Follow traffic with the park to your left, through the intersection and to the light, where you'll go right.  There'll be a white building with a pink awning to your left and then a series of anime chicks.  At the light, go just right enough that you're standing on the crosswalk, and rotate to your right.   In the left most window on the second story of the corner shop is some weird round metal thing. Touchdown is impaled on it. Orient yourself so that the green awning is to your left. Go straight until you can turn right, which will be right after the blue awning with yellow and white writing. You should be facing the colorful basketball courts and turn right.  So that the basketball court is on your left.  Go all the way down until you see a large set of basketball courts on your right.  Stop and look at the first light pole in front of the fence.  Touchdown is in the cent of the white and red sign on the pole. Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Head to the nearest intersection.  Turn right.  Then take the next right.  Pass the white building on the left.  Look at the white building then look right.  There is a blue bike chained up.  The bear is on the seat.   GO WITH traffic all the way down the one-way street so the red brick building on the corner is to your right. GO RIGHT at the light.

STOP AFTER the first gold framed door, with a gold plaque on either side, on your left.  ROTATE LEFT to face directly a blue and white sign, with white and blue letters.  There are three olive colored mailboxes left of that sign in front of you.

FIND Touchdown atop the middle rounded green mailbox. Turn so that the blue awnings are in front of you to your left. Walk into the intersection and turn left. Those blue awnings should now be on your right. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left. There should be red and white striped awnings to your right. Walk down this road past the lime green entrance until you reach the giant inflatable rat. There should be an orange cone in front of the rat. Touchdown is on top of the cone. First orient yourself to walk in the direction of traffic. Continue walking straight passing several storefronts with large windows. At the intersection, turn left. The lighted trees will be on your right and you'll be facing traffic. Just past the intersection on the left, past the orange newspaper stand on the left, you'll see a storefront with a light pole in front on the left. You'll find Touchdown there. Turn and go in the same direction as traffic. Go right at the first intersection. You will see a corner storefront up ahead on your right that is yellow. Go to that intersection, and now see the yellow sign also has glasses on it. Go right. Stop just past the storefront with the big red letters ahead on the right. Just a few storefronts further and you will see a yellow pipe on the sidewalk near the buildings. The store to the right of it has red pendant lights inside. Touchdown is sitting on top of that yellow pipe.  Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Take your first right.  Continue down this little road and take the next right.  Pass the parking entrance on the left.  Look at the entrance.  There should be opening on the left and fence on the right (Almost 50/50 split).  Look more left.  There is an orange barrel.  The bear is on top. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  You'll see a ladder and 4 cones around it on your right.  Go straight for a while.

Go through the first intersection.  At the second intersection, you'll see blue scaffolding ahead, turn right and step onto the crosswalk.  You should be parallel to that scaffolding and a red store sign with blue writing.  To the right of the writing is a logo.  Touchdown is on that logo. Orient yourself so that the orange awning is on your left and go straight. At the next intersection make a left and you will have red poles on the building to your right. Make another left at the next intersection, the corner store front on the left will have red/orange awning. At the next intersection make another left. There will be a green awning to your left and yellow and blue signing to the right. At the next intersection you will stop in the middle. Turn around facing the direction in which you came and you will see on the corner to the right an orange awning. On this corner there is a trash can with a white lining. Touchdown is in the center of the opening of this trash can.  Follow traffic to the light and go left.  Stop before the intersection, and rotate left to face the shiny, reflective building on the corner.

There is a billboard above it with a person holding a phone. Touchdown is sitting on their face. Turn so you're walking with the flow of traffic in the main through street. Go to the next intersection and turn left, then go to the next intersection and turn left again. Continue until you pass the scaffolding with green plywood on top. There will be a parking booth with yellow on the bottom. Touchdown is sitting right in the middle of the yellow section facing the street. Turn so there is a fenced lot of parked cars on your right and you can see water ahead.

Walk to the end of the street. As you step out into the intersection, stop. Touchdown is on the base of the stoplight right in front of you. Start by having the park to your left and go forward to the intersection and then immediately turn right and walk straight. Reach another intersection and again turn right. Walk along the construction work to your right and keep going until you reach an intersection. Touchdown is sitting on the silver barrel with blue top in front of you, slightly to your left. Enter the intersection and turn right.  Then take the next right (Heading towards large white building).  Then take the next right.  Pass the bikes on your right and the pink building on the left.  As you pass the silver truck you will see a bike with red wheels hiding behind a  plant (Left side of road).  The bear is on the back tire.  (Click in the middle). Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street. Go straight until you reach an intersection, and turn left.  On this short block you've just turned on to there is only one tree on the right side of the road.  Walk until you're even with the tree, then stop.  The bear is sitting on top of the gray fire hydrant that is next to the tree. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and the playground to your right.  Turn left at the next intersection and you will see a purple awning on the left.  Go forward to the next intersection and turn left again.
You will see a green retaining wall and a green awning ahead to the right.  Go forward, passing scaffolding on your right.  Keep an eye on the left after this for a part of a building that is vertically painted red, white, then blue.
Touchdown is hiding in the bottom window of the red stripe. Head down in the direction where you see a brick building directly in the middle of the street ahead. Go straight through the first intersection. When you reach the next intersection where the brick building is right in front of you then turn right. Go straight a short distance until you see a small side street that only turns to the right. It's right between two red buildings. Turn right onto that small street. Go down a little way until you see another small side street that only turns to the left. Right on that corner is a red storefront with a red door that has an air conditioner installed right over the door. Touchdown is on the ground right in the middle of that door. Orient yourself with traffic. At the first intersection, turn right. Turn right at the next intersection as well. There is a subway entrance on your right. Just before the next intersection, there is an empty building for rent on the corner on the left. Touchdown is on the green and white sign that is in the window advertising the building for rent.  Facing the flow of traffic, go through the first intersection. At the second intersection, make a right. Make another right at the next intersection. There is scaffolding with a red awning running the length of the block and a cement wall in the middle of the street. About halfway down the block, there is a hanging basket with flowers on the right. Touchdown is in this basket. Orient yourself to move in the same direction as traffic.  Go forward, and go past the side street on your right and continue going forward past all the construction, all the way to the end of the street and turn left.  Go forwards and turn left at the very next intersection.  On your right should be some scaffolding and on your left should be a large green construction barrier with a black rectangular sign posted on it.  Touchdown bear is on the white square inside the black rectangular sign.  Orient yourself with traffic on the one way street. At the end of the block, turn right. Proceed almost all the way to the end of this block so you are in front of the beginning of a pharmacy store on the right and a home goods store on your left. Touchdown is on the first letter of the red text of the pharmacy sign above the parked white van.  Turn so the white wall is on your left, and the black wrought iron fence with arch shapes is on your right.  Go forward, and straight through the first intersection you come to.  Also go straight through the second intersection, which is a three-way.  You'll have brick apartment buildings on your right.  Keep an eye on these buildings as you go.  After the first building is a walkway between buildings.  After the second building is a lawn between buildings.  After the third building is another walkway. Stop when you're even with the center of the triangle area in the center of this walkway (the triangle where the walkway splits).  There is a three-part bench in front of this fenced triangle.  It has a modern bar code type of pattern on it.  The bear is on the right-most part of this bench (if you're facing the bench). Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic down a narrow one way street and construction on the left.  Go straight through the next intersection.
As you approach the next intersection, you will see a hat vendor on the left and some national flags way down on the next block.  Turn left at this intersection and you should see some national flags on the right.  Go forward to the crosswalk before the next intersection.  on your right up the street pole is a red and white sign that Touchdown is hiding on.
 Turn away from the intersection and see a blue, black, and white sign on a pole over the road in front of you. Go ahead and turn left at that intersection.  You will pass by a yellow garage door with creatures painted on it just ahead on your left. Keep going. At the next intersection, go left. There will be a red lane to your right. Walking to the next intersection, stop before entering the crosswalk and turn to look at the shops on your left. There is a picture of a pipe on the white sign of one of them. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant in front of that shop.  Position yourself moving with the flow of traffic. You should see a bike parked under some scaffolding on your left. When you get to the first intersection, turn right. A long orange and white barrier in front of a fenced in construction barrier will be on your left. 

Just a short distance ahead is another intersection. Turn left again. Once you turn, a business with black awning and large photographs of people wearing sunglasses will be on your right and a food vendor with a blue and yellow umbrella will be on your left. 

Continue on this road. Soon, you will see scaffolding on your left and a large trailer parked in the street with a blue tarp on top. Next, you see some orange fencing with work material sitting in front of the scaffolding.  When you're in line with where that orange fencing begins, turn your body to look at the opposite side of the road. There is a black and gray fire hydrant there between two poles. Touchdown is sitting on top of the hydrant. Orient yourself with the three red doors to your right. Go straight and at the first intersection, the one with an empty businestraight ahead to the right, take a left. Go straight and then take another left. There should be chain connected poles to your left. Go straight through the intersection with benches and stop when you see a gap in the fence to the left. straight is sitting in that gap. Orient yourself so that you are facing the intersection close to you. Move to the intersection and turn left. Pass the scaffolding on both sides of the street, and when you reach the next intersection, turn left again. Now on your right should be a light tan building with small gold writing on the windows, and on your left should be scaffolding. Move to the next intersection and turn left. 

Move past the sparkling lights on your right, followed by a row of flags. Stop at the first flag. Close by on the ground is a green trash can. Touchdown is on top of the trash can. Turn with the flow of cars.  Follow truck to the next intersection.  Turn right.  Follow firetruck to the next intersection.  Turn right.  Walk forward until you see a large stack of orange caution barrels with smoke coming out of the top.  The bear is on the top. Turn so that you are facing the cobble stone street where the cars are driving away from you. You straight into that street and continue until you reach the next intersection. There's a black fire hydrant in the street ahead of you, on the right side of the road. Touchdown is sitting at the base of the fire hydrant, facing the curb. Orient yourself with the flow of traffic. Continue to the first intersection and make a left. Make another left at the next intersection. A little more than three-quarters of the way down the block, you'll see a yellow school sign on your right and a hotel entrance on your left with three flags. Touchdown is on the middle flag that is red, white, and blue. Orient yourself so you are facing the nearby intersection and go through it.
When you get to the larger intersection where the green retaining wall ends, turn right.  You'll come up on a 3-way intersection, go through it past the black and white bells in the median.
Just past the bells on your left in the median is a tree.  Touchdown is at the base of the tree. Face the direction of traffic and make a quick right. The building with the white and blue lettering will be on your right. Go down the long block and make a right at the first intersection. There will now be scaffolding up ahead, to your right. Follow it to the traffic light, make a quick right and stop. Look to your left, above the stores, there is a poster with a torch, Touchdown is on the flame. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  Head through the 3-way intersection and you'll have rot iron fencing on the right.
Turn left at the next intersection and you should see a pile of trash on the left.  
At the next intersection turn left again.  You will have a food cart on the left and some blue banners hanging from the building on the right.
Go forward and you should see ahead on the right a bright red building.  Stop before that and you will see multiple brown doors with rounded arches at the top.  Touchdown is hiding inside the arch on the center main door. Follow traffic through the first light, and go right at the second, stopping immediately past the crosswalk.  Rotate left, and you should be looking straight at the window to the right of the glass doors of a grey brick storefront.  To the left of the doors, on the sidewalk, is a green trash can.

Touchdown is center atop the green trash can. From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the parked cars on your street.  The orange and white construction barriers and the green wall should be on your right.  Just walk straight down this road until you come to an intersection.  

Take a left at this intersection, and walk down the street that has scaffolding on both sides.  

Stop in the middle of the next intersection you come to, and take a left. Walk down the narrow street, in the same direction as traffic, and then stop in the middle of the next large intersection.  On the opposite side, you should see a black fire hydrant with a silver cap.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this hydrant. Look around at the corners of the street you are on.
You will see a big plant in a blue pot.
Position yourself so this is on your right side.
Looking upwards you will see a bridge, move towards it.
Go all the way down this road until you are literally underneath the bridge.
The road you are on ends here, take a left.
Water will be to your right side.
Go forward briefly up this road.
On your left side you will see an advertisement for bowling.
To the right of this is an awning in front of a building that is under construction.
On this awning is a three digit number.
The touchdown is the number in the middle. 


  Orient yourself with traffic. Use the left arrow for one pace then continue straight to move with traffic down the street. Turn left at the first intersection. Turn left again so that the playground is now on your left. Pass a colorful painted parked trailer on the left and approach a construction zone with scaffolding on your right. Touchdown is in the middle of the first orange road work sign before the construction zone.  Turn so the red sign with gold letters is on your right. Head down the street with traffic. Take a right at the first intersection you come to. Go down the street and stop just before the crosswalk to the next intersection. Touchdown is sitting on top of the red and white umbrella you see on the left side of the street. Walk the same direction as the flow of traffic. At the first intersection, make a left. Make another left at the next intersection. You're going to walk straight thru the first curve in this road and stop prior to the curve to the left. There should be two green mailboxes to your left, and a large red sign at the entrance to a grassy area. Touchdown is sitting on the red sign.  Orient yourself so you are facing that close intersection. Step into it and you'll be able to turn right, and you will jump over a bit, more centered in the intersection. Now exit the intersection with the flow of traffic, so you are passing on your left the green wall and on your right, a bright green long sign.

Go straight through the first intersection you come to. At the second, turn right. Go down this street, passing scaffolding on your left. You'll come to a red sign on your right, just before the next intersection. Touchdown is on the lantern just before the red sign. On your right should be a brick building with white stripes and a gray door. This building also has a short black fence which covers the trash cans. On the left is a similar looking building however this one has a short brick wall with black fencing as well and the building has a maroon awning. In front of you on your right will be our red crane. You want to head straight towards the crane. When you come to the first intersection make a left. Continue to the next intersection but do not cross. On your right is a black sign with a white arrow with black words Touchstone is sitting in front of the arrow. Go into the intersection the same direction as traffic. Keep going straight. When you reach the next intersection you can't go straight anymore. Take a right. There on the left is a building that almost appears golden in the door area because of the lighting. Keep going straight. You won't reach the next intersection. On the right side you will see a fancy looking building with ornate ironwork holding up the awning over some doors that are gold. Get to the end of that and stop. There is a red bike locked to a pole on the right side. Touchdown is on the seat of that bike. Turn so the tall tree behind the red brick fence on the corner is on your right.  Follow that road and turn right at the first intersection you come to.  There is a metallic building on your left with slanted concrete supports.  Follow this road until you reach the next intersection and turn right again.  Stop right after you enter this road and look to your left.  There is a yellow newspaper machine in front of a store with a red awning.  Touchdown is sitting on the top of the yellow rectangular newspaper box. Turn yourself so that you are going with traffic. You should see four bright red doors to your right. Go straight down this street. At the first intersection you come to, make a right turn. After you turn, be looking to your left. You will see a building with a green awning. In front of that building are two short yellow poles. Touchdown is sitting between those poles.  With the green and red awnings on your left (you'll have an intersection behind you),  go to the next intersection and take a right. There will be orange barriers on the sidewalk to your right.  Go to the next intersection and take a right. You'll have a row of blue bikes to your left.  Before the doors on your left there will be a short red pipe next to the building. Touchdown is on top of the red pipe. Put the row of bikes on your left. Move into the intersection and turn right. Move down this street, past the umbrellas/food stands on the right, and go straight through that intersection. Then pass straight through a second intersection. You will then pass a bright yellow and green food truck on your right. At the next intersection, turn right again. Move about halfway down this block. When you pass the bright red awning on your left, stop. Turn back to look at that awning, and touchdown is in the center of it. Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. There should now be a yellow storefront to your right and a parking garage to your left.

2. Move forward until you reach an intersection where you're forced to turn, and take a right. After reorienting yourself, the construction area that was originally in front of you should now be to your left and a basketball court should be to your right

3. When you reach the next intersection, take another right. After reorienting yourself, a beige building should be to your left and a park area should be to your right.

4. Take a right yet again at the next intersection. You should be going with the flow of traffic after reorienting yourself. Your destination is very close.

5. Keep an eye on the first building entrance to the right. Get as close as possible without passing by the doors. To the right of the doors is a light gray circle. Touchdown is in the middle of this circle.

Good luck! :) Go with the flow of traffic to the first intersection and turn right. You'll see green signs on your right  over the windows. At the next intersection, you'll turn right again.  You will go a ways down until you see scaffolding on each side of the road.  When you get near the last section of scaffolding on your right.  Touchdown is in the center of the white sign on that last section of scaffolding. Go with the flow of traffic down this longer block to the first intersection you come to and turn right. When you turn there will be a red awning to your right followed by many green awnings.

Go to the next corner and turn right. There is a green awning on the brick building to your right when you turn.

Go down this road, past awnings on both sides, past a black store on the left, down to where there is a black awning on the right jutting out with numbers and letters on it. Touchdown is sitting on top of that awning in the center. Orient yourself so that there is a diner, with red awnings on your left (there are tables and chairs outside too). Go straight until you reach the first intersection. You need to make a right hand turn BEFORE you get to the bridge. At the second intersection(the one with the hotdog stand/ yellow and red umbrellas), you will make another right. Not to far down this street there will be a porta potty on the right and two flags hanging from the building on the left. The touchdown is on the blue part of the american flag. Turn so you'll be walking in the same direction as the traffic goes on this one-way street. Go straight through on intersection, then turn left at the next one.   Now you're on your target block (and it's a short block).  Watch the storefronts on your right.  A few stores down the block, on your right, you'll see a store with paper taped over the windows and a really nice wooden door.  Then there's one boring storefront, and the next one has bright red trim around the door and windows.  Stop when you're even with the store with the red trim.  The bear is in the center of the door (on the diagonal door handle that goes across the door). With the scaffolding to your right, go straight. Go through the first light, past the building under construction, and then the second light. At the next intersection, which has no light, take a right. Go straight until you are flanked by a red brick building and a park. Then proceed to the intersection. Touchdown is on top of a black and yellow striped object on the island in the middle. Follow the flow of traffic and go to the intersection.  Turn left.  At next intersection, turn left.  Continue down curved road, until you pass the red/blue building.  Continue until you are across the street from the 2 green dumpsters (On the left).  On the wall behind the dumpster there is a red sign.  Bear is on it. Turn until the blue bricked wall is on your left and the fenced in parking lot is on your right. Walk to the next intersection and turn right. The fenced in parking lot should now be on your right. Walk forward until you reach the intersection that has the glass building to your right and orange construction cones to your left. Touchdown is placed to your right at the base of the traffic light post. Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Move ahead straight through that first intersection. At the second intersection, turn left. Move down this street for awhile until you can start to see the stoplight at the next intersection. To your left is a long pile of water jugs. Touchdown is on the yellow cone next to the pile. Position yourself so the intersection is directly behind you. A median with benches is on your left and trash bags are on the curb to your right. Go straight through the first intersection, and right at the second one. After you turn, there's a bright blue store front on your right and a mural on the front of a building on your left. 

When you're almost to the next intersection, you'll see a bike against a pole on your left, just before the corner. Touchdown is sitting on the seat of the bike.  Turn so the orange and red striped awning is to your right. Go to that corner and turn right.

Moving with traffic flow, go through the first intersection and turn right at the one after that. When you turn you are facing traffic. You will see a red awning just ahead on the left. Keep going. Watch to the right. There's scaffolding, brownstones, a brick building, then there will be a clear plastic awning that sticks out far over a doorway into the sidewalk, Touchdown is on the very front of that awning.

 Face in the direction of traffic. Walk forward and when you get to the intersection, turn left. There will be scaffolding on your left. You can walk past it. You will also pass a pile of trash bags on your right. Keep going, and you will come to an intersection. There will be some traffic cones in front and to the left of you. Turn left at this intersection. Pass the first intersection you come to. Pass the shops on your right with a yellow and a blue flag hanging from the building. Stop just before the zebra crossing of the next intersection. You will see something that looks like a little mobile shop on the left, with pale yellow umbrellas on it. There is a fire hydrant to the right of it. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant.  Turn so you are going in the same direction as traffic. Head down this street. At the light take a right. Go one block. At the intersection take a right.  You will see trees with lights on them in planters on your left. Go about a block. Stop when you see a black building with a red awning jutting from the side. It will be on your left. To the left of the awning there is a fire hydrant with two metal posts. Touch down is sitting on top of the metal post on the left of the fire hydrant.  Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the parking garage on your right. Continue forward to the next intersection and take a left. You should see a building with wooden cladding on the left. Continue forward to the next intersection and take a left. You should see a red brick building to your left with a grocery mart underneath it. Continue forward to the next intersection and take a left. Stop immediately and turn to your right you should see a green bin next to a green pole click the base with a green bin towards the right of it to find touchdown. Moving in the direction of the cars, go straight. Continue straight through the first intersection. At the next big intersection, turn left. Go straight until you have just made it through the next intersection. If you look directly to your right, there is a fire hydrant in the middle of two short metal poles. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant. Move with the flow of traffic to the first intersection and take a left. You should have a brick building on your left. Now continue to the next intersection, just past a brick building on your left with green sign, and turn left again. 

Move ahead to the next intersection, passing trees along your left, and take another left. Move down this short street and soon there is another intersection; take a final left turn. Pass the section of construction to your right and stop. Ahead to your right is a diamond yellow sign. Touchdown is on that sign. Go with traffic to the light and go left. Go left again at the next light, and left one final time at the one thereafter.  Stop just after the four window panes in the grey facade on the right, and rotate to the right.  There's a large square white sign with brown letters on the red brick in front of you. Touchdown is affixed to the center of it. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  There will be a yellow awning to your right.
Turn left at the next intersection.  The building to your left will be made of brick, and there will be a metal fence to your right.
Move forward to the first tree on your left.  Touchdown is hiding on the large branch come out to the left of the tree where it meets the trunk. Follow the flow of traffic, with the bridge to your left and trees to your right. Continue past the small intersection near the red building on your right, and make a right at the second small intersection with the gray building on the right. Follow this one way stone road, passing the orange/white barriers on the right sidewalk and make a right at the first intersection. Continue past the blue bikes on your left, pass the intersection with no traffic light, and stop at the end of the fenced parking lot, which is at the traffic light. Turn to your right, Touchdown will be on the silver circle, that is to the right of the small blue sign, on the brown, brick building. Align yourself so that you are facing the traffic cones and turn left with the traffic.  You should now have trees on your left hand side in the median.  Go down to the next intersection, and do a u-turn. Go past the first intersection.  Keep an eye out for the first fire hydrant on the right side of the street.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the hydrant. Go with the flow of traffic and you will see blue bikes on your left go to the traffic light and turn right Go all the way down this street to the next traffic light and turn right.At the next street you will see a yellow square painted on the ground with 3 yellow lines in the square.Touchdown is sitting on the middle line just next to the pole that is closest to you Orient yourself so that you are going with the flow of traffic. There should be a gray cement wall to your left. Go straight and make a right turn at the first traffic light you come to. You will go straight down this road for a ways. You will go through two traffic lights. Immediately after going through the second light, the traffic light post will be on your left. There is also a sign on that post with a white arrow. Touchdown is sitting at the bottom of the lamp post.  With the glass building to your left, go to the light. Go left, so the flag pole behind the bollards is on your right.  Follow the road, and go through the light, towards the overpass in the distance. Go through the light there, and at the one after the overpass, go left.  The roads will split in a wye.  Take the right wye.  Follow it until reaching the intersection with the shop with the green wraparound awning with white text and a loaf of bread with a number at the corner part.  Step into the intersection without passing the crosswalk on the other side.
Touchdown is atop the number on the loaf of bread. Turn yourself until you are facing with traffic and see a red door on your right and start down the street.  Turn left at the intersection.  You will see a bridge crossing over the street as you start down it.  Once past the bridge, turn left at the intersection.  You will see lots of construction scaffolding, netting and dumpsters on your right.  Follow this street past the large green dumpster on your right.  As you near the intersection, you will see a small booth on your left.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the air conditioning unit on the roof of the booth. Position yourself where there is a green awning on your right. Head straight until you arrive at the intersection. Once at the intersection make a right. Once you make a right continue forward until you arrive at another intersection and make a right. Continue forward and you should eventually notice a sign that warns you about a certain bump up ahead. Once you pass that sign, you should notice a building with some scaffolding. once you pass the scaffolding. Continue forward till you see tons of trash on your right near a black and grey fire hydrant. The touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant. Follow traffic to the intersection and go left.

Follow the one-way street, with the park to your left and scaffolding to your right, until you reach the next intersection.

Walk just through it, enough so you see a garbage can with a bright neon green lid in front and to the right of you.

Touchdown is sitting on the neon green lid of that garbage can (which is next to a grey metal steel pole with a one-way array and red/white square sign) Turn yourself so the purple and white banner is on your right and the red banner with golden arches is on your left. Continue one block, to the next intersection. Take a right. There will be another purple and white banner. Continue straight. Go through one intersection. At the next intersection there will be a building with a black grid-like design on the bottom floor. Take a right. Go one block. Take a right. There will be orange and white striped barriers to your right. Continue until you see the next intersection. To your left there are several trees with yellow leaves. Touchdown is on the sign post on the corner in front of the yellow trees, near the back of the sign facing the other street. Orient yourself, so that the park is to your left and go forward, passing two intersections. Make sure to continue going straight (it will seem like it's forcing you to go left but you can keep going) and stop before you reach the third intersection.
On your right, look at the pole with the signs on it. Touchdown is on the center of the green sign. You're going to want to go with the flow of the traffic. There will be a van to the left of you and a truck in front of you with a bank on the right. Go down to the intersection and take a right. You should see a van with a flag on it and a truck to the left. Go down this road to the next intersection and take a right. You should have blue bikes on your left noe. Follow this road to the intersection and take a right. There should be a van on your life, bus in front of you and another SUV on the right. Look to your left. That clear part of the light is your touchdown. Going with the flow of traffic, go to the intersection and turn right.  You will go straight through three intersections.  At the fourth intersection there till be two blue mailboxes on the left.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the first mailbox on your  left. Turn so the basketball court is on your right. Go down this street to the intersection and take a left. Go straight and take a left just before the stone archway. Stop when you are in the middle of the bus parked on the right side of the road. Look to the left side of the street. Touchdown is sitting in front of the yellow sign on the post there.  Head up that we are going to be taking a walk around the block.  Orient yourself so that you are facing an intersection.  Enter this one and turn right.  Go to the next intersection and turn right again.  There will be scaffolding on your right side.  Go down this long street to the next intersection and turn right one last time.  As you head down this street, you'll see some neon blue lettering on a brick building on your right.  Pass these neon letters and immediately stop.  Turn 90 degrees to your right.  Above the second floor windows of the black storefront in front of you is a sign with an orange circle.  This orange circle has a white letter in it.  Touchdown is in the middle of this circle.   Turn so that the building on the end of the street with the bright red trim is on your right.  Travel the very short distance to the intersection and turn right, keeping the red trim building on your right.  Follow that one-way street to the next intersection and turn right.  Travel down that road until you come to an intersection.  Stop there and look to the right.  There is a single green garbage can next to a blue pole supporting the green construction awning.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the garbage can in the middle. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Go straight through the next intersection.
You should see scaffolding ahead on the left and an overpass.
Go under the overpass and stop just before the intersection.
Look left at the corner you're near and there will be a black and white sign with an arrow pointing right.  Touchdown is on the arrow point. Align yourself so the green subway entrance and the green shop is on your right. Head up to the intersection to make a right. You'll keep the fenced in park on your right, and make another right at the next intersection. You'll head down this street to the next intersection to make a right, and should have 3 trash cans sitting on the corner when you turn. Head straight through the next intersection and just after you should see a bunch of men in an ad on the wall to your right. Touchdown is sitting on the head of the right most man. Align yourself with the flow of traffic via the parked cars, and head up to the intersection to make a left. Shortly after, you'll make another left.

There should be a fenced in mural on your left now. Head down this street, and ignore the right turn. right before the next intersection will be two white tipped bells on your right. Touchdown is on the bell closest to you, and closest to the intersection. Stand facing the closest traffic lights, making sure that the fire hydrant is to your left and the white buildings are in front of you, and quickly make a left at this intersection. Go down this one way street, following the orange/white traffic cones on your left and make another left at the first traffic light. Proceed down this street, passing the scaffolding on your right and stopping after it, before reaching the foot bridge. Make sure you are right in front of the weird, futuristic building on your right, with the zigzags going up the building. Touchdown is on the ground, in front of the base of the plant that is to the right of the glass door to this building. Turn around and align yourself so that the red lane is on your right. Head to the intersection and make a right. Head down and start paying attention when you see the blue mesh on the construction site to your left. Pass the blue bin as well and at the second staircase on the same side, or the doorway after the third planter in the window, touchdown will be on the top step in front of the doorway. Turn so that the cement barrier is on your right and make a left turn at the first traffic light. Go to the first street after the playground that will be on your right and turn left.Follow this road towards the arch building over the road and you will go past Four stop signs on your left side where they are doing construction and sitting on the fifth stop sign is where you will find Touchdown. Orient yourself against traffic. At the end of the block, turn left. You're still moving against traffic. Continue straight through two intersections. Just before the third intersection, there is a storefront with colorful lights completely surrounding the store and windows. Touchdown is on top of the middle spire above this store entrance.  Turn until the steps with the pumpkins on them are to your left. There should be a yellow sign with two black figures on it in front of you to your right. Walk forward to the four way intersection and turn left. Green awnings should be on your left. Walk straight to the next intersection and turn left. On the corner to your right should be a red square post and a green garbage can. Walk straight until there are giant white columns to your right. Turn and face the columns. Look up at the black bell. Touchdown is in the bell. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic. You'll go under a green overhang in this alley.
Turn right at the next intersection.
You should see scaffolding ahead on the right (and some immediately on your left).
Turn right at the next intersection.  You should see scaffolding ahead on the right.
Turn right once again at the next intersection.  You should see a pile of trash on the sidewalk on your right.
You should see a small pit on the right ahead.  Go until you're next to it.
Look right and you'll see a cement mixer.  Touchdown is on the wheel of it. Stand so that you are walking with the flow of traffic. Walk straight to the first intersection, and turn left. Walk to the first intersection, and turn left again. Continue straight, past a large fenced area on the left. Continue until you see an orange awning/sign with blue letters on your left. Just past the orange sign is an orange bench (in front of a store with glass windows and black frames). Touchdown is on the orange bench. Orient yourself in which there should be a road between a blue scaffolding on your left and some red and brown awning on your right. Follow the road, passing all the bicycle on your right, buildings, and trees along the way and eventually you should pass a yellow awning that is next to the intersection. Once you arrive at the intersection, make a right turn. Once you make a right turn continue forward till you notice a few orange cones on your right up ahead. Pass the first two cones but don't go any further. You should be in between the orange cones on your right. To your left you should notice three bicycle parked. The touchdown is on the bicycle seat nearest to you. Face the intersection you are close to and enter it. Make a left turn and go straight one block. Make another left turn. Once you are turned you'll see rainbow colored flags handing from an awning on the left side. Go straight down this long block. You will only get about halfway. You'll pass a fenced parking area on the right side. Keep going a bit more. You'll pass a light brown awning on the right side. Almost there now. You'll see a section painted green on the right where cars can enter the building on the right. Go just a bit further until you see a bike locked to a pole on the right side. Touchdown is on the seat of that bike.  Position yourself so you're moving with the flow of traffic. Two bright blue awnings with a dog and cat on each will be on your right. Take this street all the way to the first intersection and turn right. After you turn, the business on your right will have signs that are dark green and light green with white writing. 

At the next intersection turn right and stop. Just ahead on the right is a fire hydrant between two short poles. Touchdown is sitting on top of that hydrant.  Go with traffic down the one way. Turn right at the first intersection. Enter the next intersection and stop. Look right at the blue bike on the corner across the street. Touchdown is sitting on the seat of the blue bike. Face the intersection so that there is a popular chain donut shop on your left. Continue straight and turn left at the next intersection. Turn left again at the end of this block. There will be an empty lot at the corner on the right surrounded by a green construction wall, and scaffolding in front of the building on the left. Continue straight through the next intersection. Before entering the next intersection, there will be three magazine boxes on the right corner, alternating orange and green. Touchdown is on top of the green box in the middle of the two orange boxes. Orient yourself so the sea is on your left and the baseball field is on your right. Gp straight on the interstate for a good ways until you see a wirey bridge going over the top of you. there will be a pole to the right with 3 signs, white green and blue. Youll be stopped in the middle of the interstate. the touchdown is located on the blue sign. In the middle Go with the flow of traffic.  There will be a bright blue wall up ahead on the left.  Go straight through the first intersection; turn right at the second.  There will be a maroon awning to your right.    Proceed to the next intersection and turn right again.  There will be a red awning with Chinese characters to your left. Proceed to the next intersection.  Go straight through this intersection.  When you reach the second intersection, turn right one last time.  There will be a median with an green walkway on your left.  On your right will be a store with a green stripe.  Go all the way past this green stripe.  Turn to your right to face the green stripe.  There is a green square to the left of the stripe.  Touchdown is in the middle of this square. Turn and go in same direction as traffic.You'll be in the middle of an intersection. Turn right so that Scaffolding with green boards is on the right. On the left is  table and chairs outside under a red and white awning.Turn right at intersection. A garage door is on the left. Boxes and gargage bags on the right.  Go straight at the first little intersection and turn right at the next intersection soon after. Orange and white barricades on the left. At the first traffic light stop on the crosswalk. This is not an intersection. It is just a crosswalk with a traffic light. Look to the left and touchdown is sitting on the hand symbol on the yellow sign on the pole.  Follow the flow of traffic so that the parking sign is on your right. Continue forward and turn left at the intersection. Go forward, passing construction, and turn left at the next intersection. You will see a gift store on your right next to the news store. The touchdown is on the white '&' next to the red test.  Position yourself in which there is quite a few red benches on your left and a red brick building on your right. Follow the road, passing all the trees that are located on your left and right. Eventually you should pass a red, pink, blue, brown, and orange awning. Once you pass the orange you should be close to an intersection. At the intersection make a right turn. Follow the road passing the bicycle on your left and trees on your right. You should arrive at an intersection and make a right turn. Continue forward on this road passing the building with stairs on your right. Eventually you should be in a position in which your at the beginning of the black fence on your left and there is a blue basketball goal. The touch down is sitting on top of the hoop of the basketball. Face the flow of traffic and quickly make a right. There will now be green scaffolding on your left and red store awning on your right. Get to the end of the street and make a left at the first traffic light. There will now be a red/yellow awning on your left and blue awning on your right. Go down the one way street and make a left at the first intersection. Keep going and stop when you reach the black awning on your left and red store sign on your right. There is a red and white sign on a pole to your right next to a tree. Touchdown is on the red part of that sign. Turn so you are facing the Y with the glass building in the middle.  Keep to the right, with the red brick building on your right and the metal rod fence on your left. Proceed forward and turn right at the first intersection.  You'll have green construction on your left now.  Follow this road and turn right at the first intersection.  There will be green construction on your left and a red brick building on your right.  Stop when you first enter this street and look right to the corner.  There is a single fire hydrant between two poles near the corner.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant. Turn and follow the flow of traffic.  Take your first left, then the next left.  Pass the rental bikes on the left.  Almost pass the green covered sidewalk on the right.  Look right.  There is an orange cone hiding behind the white van on the sidewalk.  The bear is on top.  Orient yourself so you are going in the same direction as traffic.  move a few paces forward and turn right at the intersection.  go down the block, you should pass a red outdoor court on your right.  Further down the block is some scaffolding on your right.  almost at the end of the block is a tree on your left, with wooden benches.  touch down bear is at the base of this tree's trunk. Going in the same direction as traffic, walk under the bridge ahead and go left at the first two intersections you come to. The building now on your left has mirror windows. Toward the end of this building, you will see a red garage door across the street on your right. Stop just past it and turned to look at it. Touchdown is sitting right in the middle of the yellow sign to the left of it.  (There is also a red one and a green one). Keep the water to your left and go ahead. Closer to the bridge but before going under it, look for a pole of signs on the right side of the road. From top to bottom, they are green, white, green, blue. Stop just before the painted arrows on the road very near the sign. Touchdown is on the arrow of the blue sign on bottom.  Turn yourself where a parking lot is on your right. There will be some scaffolding on your left. Continue straight. Turn left at intersection. Turn left at the next intersection. There will be a garage on the right.  And antoher garage on the left. You will then go thru a tunnel. You will see a ried and white sign on the right in the tunnel. Touchdown is in the middle of the sign.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
You will pass a blue machine on the left.
Turn right at the next intersection.  You should see a red and white banner up ahead on the right hanging from a tall silver pole.
Turn right at the next intersection as well.  The store on the right corner will be all black with a green and white logo.
Head forward and stop just past where the red brick building on your right ends.
Look back and you should see a black door with a light above it.  Touchdown is on the light.
 You are standing near an intersection
Rotate to face away from the intersection

Proceed to the next intersection.
Turn right at the intersection

Proceed to the next intersection.
Turn right at the intersection

Proceed to the next intersection, it will only be a few steps on a very short street.
Proceed forward through this intersection.

Proceed to the next intersection.
Turn right at the intersection

Proceed toward the next intersection.
As you move forward, look to your left.
Notice a red door under a pastel purple window.
When you are as close to the red door as you can be without passing it, stop.

To the right of the red door, a man's image on a poster is visible.
The bear is sitting in the middle of the man's face. You are at an intersection, turn in the direction that will have a parking lot ahead to your right and a white building ahead to your left and then go straight through the intersection. You will now see a to your right a parking lot with parked city buses and to your left a temporary construction awning, continue straight. When you get to the next intersection go left, you are now going with the flow of traffic. At the next intersection, you will veer slightly to the right before being able to make a left, you will have orange signing on both sides of the street. Just ahead you will see a side street on the left, turn left here. You will have a tiled building to your right. Stop before you get to the next intersection near the end of the tiled building. On the sidewalk on the right there is a white and orange traffic cone. Touchdown is at the tip of the cone.  Go WITH flow and LEFT at light.  Ignore the 3-way with the road going right and the shop on the left with the white bowl on a red circle on a black sign band, and go LEFT at the light.  Go LEFT again at the next one. There should be red awning followed by black awning on your left and black awning on your right. 

STOP when you get to the shop with the black awning on your left. The shop on your right will be red brick with two globe lights on either side of the door.
ROTATE LEFT.   There should be a single light bulb hanging in front of the air conditioner above the shop entrance.

FIND Touchdown on that light. Go through the intersection, down the street with the dark brown building and red newspaper kiosk on your right and the mailboxes and hydrant on your left.

Go right at the light.  Go straight through the next two.  Stop when you pass the last white square planter with trees on your right, such that you're standing with a small alcove on your right.  

Ahead of you are two hydrants behind three bollards. Touchdown is atop the red hydrant with the white cap. Orient yourself so you are walking the same way the traffic is moving.  If you look up, you'll see a crosswalk between the two buildings high in the air ahead of you if you're facing the correct way.  Go to the end of this block, past the blue rental bikes, and turn right.  Go down one block to the next intersection and turn right.  Begin walking down this road.  At the end of the block, right before the intersection, you'll see an enclosed bus station stop on the right.  Look forward toward the intersection from the bus stop and find the trash can next to the street light.  The touchdown is on top of the trash can. Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic, and turn right at that intersection.  Then take your next right.  On the left side is a neon red and green sign.  Go towards it.  Pass it and look left.  There is a red stool on the ground on the left.  The bear is sitting on it.   Orient yourself so the wood and glass doors are on your right and a parking garage is on your left. You'll be moving with the flow of traffic to the first intersection, and then turn right. An American flag and a long green canopy extending over the sidewalk from a business will be on your right after you turn. 

At the next intersection, turn right again. You'll be moving with traffic down a one-way street and a short black wrought iron fence will be in front of shrubs on your left.

Once you get to the next intersection, make one final right turn. Just after the scaffolding begins on your right, you'll see a door with a circled carved in the wall above it. Touchdown is placed right in the middle of that circle.  Turn so you go with traffic flow and blue rental bikes are on your left.
Turn left at the first intersection right there.
Continue with traffic flow. You will pass a road to the right. Just continue forward. Then go through the next intersection with the scaffolding on the right. At the next intersection you will see more scaffolding, but on the left this time. Turn left so when you are turned, that scaffolding will be on your right.
Continue down until you see the brick building on your right with a long narrow white/red/white vertical banner in front of it. Touchdown is in the center of the red part of that banner. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
We will not be making a turn.
Go through the first intersection and keep going straight.
Go until you see a red convertible vehicle with a tan/white soft top on the right next to some black fencing.  Look up and to the right and you'll see large circular structures on the building next to you.  Touchdown is on the bottom one in the middle. Go with traffic
Make a left turn under the bridge.(left turn only side street) 
Make another left turn at the intersection.
Make a left turn(another left turn only side street)
Turn left one last time.
While directly in front of the black fence(looking forward and not left), there is a white guard or ticket booth with a trash can and two orange cones beside it.
Touchdown is on the top of the trash can.

  Hello. Please orient yourself in the same direction as the parked vehicles. You will be facing an intersection with a red benches in the center. 

Move forward into the center of the three-way intersection. Turn right.

There will be a green bicycle lane and a median with trees and benches to your left side. 

Walk forward on this path, passing many little white poles with two gray stripes on your left side.

When you reach the next four-way intersection, turn right again.

There will be a bright blue building to your right side. You will see a green bicycle lane to your left side. 

Walk forward until you reach the next four-way intersection. Turn right once more.

There will be a brown building with a red door to your right side. To your left side, there is a brown building with a black awning and colorful orange and white signs with photographs of food on them. 

Walk forward while keeping an eye on your left side. You will see a black fence with a parking lot, a blue basketball hoop and a very colorful painted wall on your left side. Slow down as you pass by them. 

Next to the painted wall is a black building with an open wooden door. Please stop when you are just beyond but still nearby the open door near some black bins with white, red and green graffiti. Notice to the left of the wooden door there is a bright white light that is square in shape.

Touchdown is next to the wooden door on the white square light. Good luck! Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and go through the first two intersections.
You should see a building to your left with a lot of windows.  Just in front of that is a 3-way intersection right in front of a large number of big barrier cones.  Skip this 3-way intersection and go forward.  Turn right at the next intersection and you should have a very colorful wall on your right.  Go forward and through the next intersection, but stop shortly after leaving it when you are next to a wooden bench on the median to your left.  Touchdown is sitting in the middle of this bench. Begin moving with the flow of traffic so the bright red door is on your left and the bus stop with two benches is on your right. Go straight through the first two intersections and turn right at the third one. After you turn, you'll be moving with traffic. Park benches are just ahead on your right in an open space area. 

Pass by a building on your right with several bright red doors. Just after that, there's a playground on your right behind a fence. Right in front of the gates to the playground is a black fire hydrant. Touchdown is sitting right on top. Go straight with the traffic and make a right at the first light. Go down the block and make a right at the light. Go halfway into the block and stop when you get to the white and beige building on your right. touchdown is on the first level of the brown terrace with the vines above the entrance. With the statue in the median to your left, go towards the light. Go right, so the building with the steel overhead doors and white awnings is to your left and the blue bike rentals to your right.  Go through the next three lights you encounter and rotate right when you're at the four trees of the building on the right, so you're staring straight down the middle of them.  Touchdown is on the green insignia to the left of the double glass doors in front of you. Stand so you are facing away from the close street light. Move forward until you have a chance to turn left. Do so, passing a pile of trash bags on your left. Continue until you reach an intersection, and turn right. Very soon on your right is a red post, right before a stoplight pole. Touchdown is on top of the red post. Before you start make sure you are heading in the correction direction. You want to be going in the same direction as traffic is moving. There will be a coffee shop on your right hand side. You will go straight through the first stoplight and continue down that street. When you come to the second set of lights make a right turn down that street. It is a one way street.  Go down that street almost to the end. On your left hand side you will see aa row of blue bikes. Touch down is sitting on the seat of the very first blue bike you come too.   Turn with the flow of traffic and go forward.  Continue under the green bridge.  Once past the bridge face the right and look at the park.  Continue until the silver and black gates meet.  Just before the soccer filed.  Bear is at the base of the black pole where silver and black meet. Head in the direction of a white bubble building.  There should be a brown bridge directly behind you.  When you come to the intersection directly in front of the bubble building, turn right.  Go straight.  Pass straight through the first intersection you come to.  You will also pass through another stoplight in the middle of the block.  After you pass through the stoplight, you should see a dual restaurant with an orange awning on your left.  One of the business names over the awning has a coffee cup next to it.  Touchdown is in the center of the coffee cup. Turn to go with traffic flow. 
Go through the first intersection to the second. When you get through the first intersection there is a brick building on the right and a dark red canopy up ahead on the left. Keep moving forward to the next intersection and then turn right.
Go just through the next intersection and notice an orange and white barrel on your right. Touchdown is on top of that barrel. Turn to face with traffic, go forward to the next intersection, and then take a right. Now go down this block, past the businesses on the right and the official looking buildings on the left, until you reach the end of the block. Take a right, and go one more block, past the divider full of trees. Take one more right here, then go forward past the stairs of the brick building you'll see on your left. You should see a round window above a door with a bulletin board. Touchdown is under the bulletin board, directly under the sign hanging from the bottom. Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Move ahead following the path as it veers right and then left. When you have an opportunity to turn, go right (NOT under the bridge, which would be slightly left). Then move to the intersection and go left, passing under the bridge. At the next intersection, go left again. Move ahead to the next intersection. When you are in the middle of it, face left and there is a diamond yellow sign with a black arrow and red octagon. Touchdown is on this sign. Turn with the flow of cars and head to the nearest intersection.  Turn left, then take the next left.  You will be traveling along construction the whole way.  On this road stop one step before the orange construction barrel on the left sidewalk.  The bear is on top of the barrel, but was placed from a distance.   Face the light, and turn right at it. Proceed through the first light and turn right at the second. Turn right at the next light as well. Go through the next light and stop just before being even with a blue restaurant with outdoor dining on the left. Touchdown is on the end of the blue stripe of an awning of the store on the left corner. Align yourself so the two parked mopeds are on your left. Head down this street to make a right at the next intersection, and then a right at the one after. You should have some tables with green umbrellas on your left now. Head down this street, until you enter the next intersection. On your right, you should see a phone booth with two yellow poles next to it. Touchdown is on the left yellow pole closest to you. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, and make a right at the intersection. Make another right at the next intersection.

You'll head down this street a little over halfway, and when you see a bike parked between the cars on both the left and the right side, Touchdown will be on the seat of the left bike. Start walking with the flow of traffic. An intersection will be just a few steps in front of you. Go straight through this intersection. At the next intersection, you're going to keep going straight again. There will be scaffolding on your right and a gray building with large windows and blue signs on your left. 

At the next intersection you get to, you will turn left. This will be the third intersection from where you started. After you turn, a red post will be on the sidewalk on your right and on your left you'll see a business with mannequins in large windows. 

Go straight down this road but slow down as you get closer to the intersection. The last building on your left before the intersection has a series of arched pale blue signs with people jumping on some of them. Directly in line with the first picture is a small red sign on a green pole next to the road. Touchdown is on the red sign.  Align yourself so the orange fencing is on your left. Head down to the first intersection to make a left, and you'll make another left shortly after, there should now be a church on your right. There is a glass window in a circle with shapes in it. Touchdown is in the middle of the glass window. Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Stay straight, then left at the fork.  Turn left where road ends.  At intersection turn left.  Navigation is a little tough, but go right at the fork.  Take a couple steps and stop.  Look to the middle of the fork (You shouldn't be past it yet).  At the bottom of the caution sign is 2 yellow diamonds.  The bear is in the top one.  Turn and go in same direction as traffic. Turn left at intersection. Black and white stripe on store to the left. Turn left at next intersection. Green and white on building on the right. Go straight thru intersection. Tan buildin on the left and a white stripe with red and black on it to the right.  Stop when you are in between the second and third window on the tan building on the left. The first windown does not have a grid on it. Touchdown is on top of the third window. Align yourself with the flow of traffic via the parked cars. there should be a bike on your left tied to a traffic sign. head to the intersection and make a right. You'll make a right at the next intersection as well.

You should now see a short piece of scaffolding and if you head down a green dumpster with a blue tarp on it. Pass this, and head through the intersection. A few steps up you'll see some red doors on the steps, then two red doors after the steps. Touchdown is in the window of the right most red door.
 Follow the flow of traffic and turn right at the second traffic light Go to the next traffic light and you will see a trash can on the corner on your right Touchdown is sitting in the hole of the trash can Put the townhome on your left and move forward. Continue straight through an intersection. Keep an eye out on your left for a red building with lots of windows and fire escapes. Touchdown is sitting on the bottom left fire escape. Orient yourself so that a bike share rack is ahead on the left. Proceed forward past them. Turn right at the light. Go straight through the next light and stop just before the crosswalk of the next light. The church on the right has two boxes out front. Touchdown is on the cross of the nearest box. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Go straight through the next intersection.
At the next intersect where the green awning that juts out on the right can be seen.  Turn left to make a u-turn going down the same road with traffic again.
Go straight from here through the first intersection that has red umbrellas on the right.
As you approach awning jutting out right before the next intersection, stop and you will find Touchdown hiding on the numbers on the front of the awning.
 Face the flow of traffic, with the brown store front on your right, go down this street and stop at the first intersection. On your right, there will be a green pole with a green and orange ball at the top. Touchdown will be on the green part of that ball. Head down the road the same direction as traffic. At the very first intersection take a right. Go straight. At the next intersection turn right again. After you turn there should be an awning that is green with 2 red stripes on the left side. Go straight. You will go more than halfway down this block. You will pass the car parking lot that is on the right side. You will get to the end of the green construction awning and scaffolding that is on the right. There is a fire hydrant right at the end of that. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant. From your starting point, please turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  The scaffolding should be on your left.  

Walk forward and take a right at the intersection, so that you walk down the wide street with scaffolding on both sides.  Move forward to the next intersection and take a right. 

You should now be walking down a three-lane road that has a large red sculpture of four letters on your left, and some yellow flowers in planters on your right.  Just walk straight down this road, and go straight through the first intersection you come to.  

On the other side of the intersection you should be on a narrow street with a large red and yellow poster on the left, and some blue and orange cones on the right.  Keep walking down this street, and past a longer row of blue cones on your right.  

You will see orange and white construction barriers on your left.  Keep walking until you reach the end of the row of these barriers, and then move just past some large open spaces in the building on your left, and past another open space that has chain-link fence over its entrance.  

When you are standing between a black metal gate in the wall on your left, and a plain blue section of wall with no lettering on your right, look to your left for a small A-frame sign with red and blue lettering on a white background.  Touchdown is sitting right on top of this sign-frame. Orient yourself to leave the cul-de-sac. Exit and turn right at the first stop sign. Turn right at the next intersection. Proceed past the basketball courts on your left. Turn right at the next intersection. Pass the first piece of playground equipment on your left and stop when the last grid of numbers in the playground is on your left. The last row of numbers appears to have one green, one yellow, and two blue squares. Touchdown is on the yellow square. Align yourself so that the ship is on your left view.  Proceed into the intersection and take a right.  Go all the way till you reach the first intersection and take a right.  At the first light, take another right.  As soon as you turn, on your left there's a mailbox.  Touchdown is hiding on top of the mailbox. go with traffic under the bridge, , at the intersection take a right, you will see another bridge ahead, and a building on your left will have scaffolding and a green canopy, Go under the bridge and through the next intersection, there will be a red painted building with piles of back trash bags at the curb, keep straight. there is another building with green wrought iron on its windows, go until you get just before the next intersection, in the crosswalk is a manhole, the touchdown is on the manhole cover Turn so the bike lane is to your left side. At this light take a right. Go straight. At the next intersection go straight. Keep going to the next light. Take a right here. There will be a business with a red awning on your right. Stop at the next intersection. On the left there is a brick building with a black awning and wood accents. Touchdown is sitting on the menu board placed outside the restaurant in the bottom floor of this building.  Face the direction the traffic is flowing and make sure there is scaffolding on your left. Go straight and stop at the first traffic light. There will be a building with big red letters on your left and a circular logo on your right. Make a right at that corner and keep going straight until you reach the first traffic light. There will be a silver modern looking building on your right. Take a right and go down the one way street and stop before you reach the end of the modern building on your right which is next to the brown building with the white sign above its door. Touchdown is in the middle on the white sign on the brown building. Follow the traffic direction. You will see a police SUV in front of you, heading to that intersection. Turn left at this intersection, you know you are on the right road if you see a US flag on the right side of the road in front of you. You will also see a white small postal truck. Follow the direction of traffic, heading to the next intersection. You will see the flag in front of you on the right side on the street. Go across this intersection, pass the flag, to the next intersection. Once you there, you will see on the left side there is construction going on. Turn left here. You will know you are going against the traffic. This is ok. Go against the traffic till you reach next intersection. Look around and you will see a building first floor covered with green board and some posters and across the street there is a bank with blue and gold signs. The street in between of them is the one you want to turn to. Follow the taxis and go that direction you will soon see a delivery truck on the right side of the road. Continue heading that way and pass the first intersection till you reach the second intersection. You should see a tall construction cone with white/orange strips , the touch down is on the top of the cone.  Orient yourself so that you are moving with the flow of traffic. Go straight to the next intersection and turn right. Continue to the next intersection, and turn right again.

Move forward until you reach the next intersection. In the center of it, turn right and on your right will be a black newspaper stand with a white sign with large red square. Touchdown is on the red square. Align yourself with the intersection. Head in to it and make a right. Head against traffic up to the next intersection ,and make another right. You will make another right at the next intersection.

Finally, at the first intersection, make a last right. Down this road, you should see construction. Pass the wooden box in the middle of the street, and you should see a hydrant between two poles on your left. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant. Turn around until you are facing the direction of moving vehicles.
Go forward until you come to the first entersection. At the intersection make a right turn and go down that street. Keep going passed the large yellow construction dumpster on your left. Continue down that street until you see the last house on your right hand side, right before a playground that has a black iron fence around it. The house is a yellowish green house with brown shutters. It has red steps leading up to the door. Touchdown is  sitting in on the first step right in the middle leaning o9n the center gate post.  Turn so you are moving along with traffic. Go straight through the first intersection. At the second intersection take a right. Move up the block, going straight through the next intersection you come to. At the next intersection, take a right. After the turn watch the right side. You should immediately see a black storefront that looks like a restaurant. The order window area should be brightly painted. You will see two high tables just to the right and left of the window. The Touchdown is sitting on the left table all the way at the back against the storefront. You should see the artist signature on the storefront directly beneath the correct table.  Follow the cars to the intersection.  Turn right.  Walk to the next intersection.  Turn right.  There is usually a pretzel vendor at this corner.  Continue down this road.  There is a building with a big yellow sign on it.  The writing is in another language, maybe Chinese. Walk towards that building.  When you are in front of that building, look across the street.  There is a bike chained to a pole.  The bear is on the front basket. Turn so the intersection is directly in front of you and the large painted mural on the side of a building is on your right. Step into that intersection and turn right.

Go to the second intersection on this street and turn right. After you turn, a brightly colored mural on the entire side of a white building will be on your right. You can already see the next traffic light up ahead. Make another right turn there. This puts scaffolding on your left and a light blue arched door just ahead on your right. 

Take this street until it ends and turn left. Stop immediately after you turn. Look to the left and you'll see a small white and red bed bench in front of a store. Touchdown is sitting in the center of that bench.  Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic, and head to the nearest intersection.  Turn left.  Go to the next intersection, turn left.  Continue forward to the next intersection.  Just before you enter the intersection, look right.  You will see two red balls on top of poles.  Bear is on top of the left one.   Look toward the intersection. Turn left down the road on the left. You should pass mail trucks. Keep going until you see a street on your left. Turn down that street and go just before the end. Look behind you and to your left. There's a sign on the ground. The bear is on the center of the sign, Orient yourself so the yellow storefront is on your right. Step into the first intersection as if you're going straight, so you can take the second left. It's a confusing intersection here. When you're on the correct street, you'll have a food vendor on your right in front of a business with all windows, and green scaffolding will be up ahead on your left. 

Go straight through the next intersection, and turn left at the one that follows. After you turn, you'll have a subway entrance in front of a business with a black sign with green and red letters on your right. Go past the one way street that comes up shortly on your right

Just a little farther, and there will be another one-way street on your right, creating a fork in the road. You'll see construction barrels on that street. Standing where the fork in the road begins, look straight ahead and there's a green street sign separating the path of the two roads. On the pole to the sign are two yellow diamond shapes near the bottom. Touchdown is placed on the bottom diamond shape.  Go with the flow of traffic.  Go to the intersection and turn left.  There will be lots of pots with evergreen plants in them on your left.  Go to the next intersection and turn left.  There will be a store with a blue stripe on your right.  Go to the next intersection and turn left.  There will be a building made mostly of windows up ahead on your left.  Exit the intersection and then stop.  Turn 90 degrees to your right.  There are yellowish stars on a maroon awning.  Touchdown is sitting in front of the right star.  Follow traffic, with the  fenced in fountain to your left and go through the light. At the stop sign, go right. At the light, go right. There should now be a red stripe on the asphalt on your right.  Go right, at the light. You'll have the building with the green awning to your right and the white building to your left.

Pass the crosswalk and turn left to face the white building. It has huge black dimensional letters that end in a red symbol with two white triangles touching inside it. Touchdown is where the tips of those meet. Face the intersection and proceed through it, passing by blue and yellow playground equipment on the right as you travel. Turn right down the road with the orange barricade and pass two pairs of waste and recycling bins on the right. Stop when even with a ramp in the sidewalk on the left occurs to parking, but has two yellow pylons to block traffic. Touchdown is on top of the left yellow pylon. Going with the flow of traffic, go to the first intersection and take a right turn. There will be arched doorways on both sides of the street.  Go to the next intersection and take a right. There will be a food car on your right.   Go to the next intersection and Touchdown will be on your right on top of the orange newspaper box. Begin moving with the flow of traffic. There will be large red doors and an American flag on your right. At the first intersection, turn right. After you turn, there will be tables and chairs with blue umbrellas on your left.

Continue to the next intersection and turn right again. Now, you'll have a large brownish-orange building with mustard yellow trim on your right. Up ahead on the left, you'll see scaffolding. Right before the scaffolding ends, there is a bike chained to it directly in front of a door to a business. Touchdown is sitting on the bicycle seat.  Orient yourself so you are moving against the flow of traffic.  Go straight until you're past the scaffolding and in an intersection.  Turn right and go forward to cross into the other side of the road, then turn right again (don't go down the road, we're making a u-turn).  You should once again moving against the flow of traffic.

Go straight past the orange and white cones.  You should be approaching more scaffolding on the left and the road will force you left as well when you go forward.  It will shove you head on into a building with a blue bike, a dumpster, and an orange cone or two in front of you.

Turn left and you'll be facing oncoming traffic again.  Go forward until you are next to a purple pagoda/Asian roof looking structure.  Touchdown is dead in the middle of this purple thing. Turn to the right until you see a white jeep in front of you. Go this way until you get to an intersection. Make a right here.Make another right at the next intersection too. A short ways down there will be some black fence on the right and a building with barred windows on the left (next to an maroon colored van). The touchdown is located on the third barrred window before the van. Turn to face the bridge keeping the medium to your left, at the bridge intersection take a left, On the bridge on a pole at the crosswalk is a yellow box atop the pole, the bear is on that yellow box Align yourself to head in to the intersection shortly. At the intersection, head down this road about a dozen steps until just after it starts curving.

On your left, there will be 3 olive post boxes in front of a tree.Touchdown is on the middle of the 3 boxes. Walk forward down this road passing the intersection in front of you. Walk until you see a large blue tarp on a dumpster with numbers on it. Touchdown is on top of the traffic cone next to it.  With the scaffolding on your left and the basement doors chained shut on your right, go straight down this narrow road.  Go straight through the first stoplight you come to.  There will be a yellow awning to your right. As you approach the next light, Touchdown will be on the green trashcan on your right. Turn to face with traffic, then go to the end of the block, past the building with bright green signs. Now turn left, and go to the end of this block. Turn left, you should see a building with red signage. Now go forward until you're near the door of a store with a dot inside a circle above the door. Touchdown is on that dot. Align yourself so that the tunnel of traffic is on your left. Head up to the intersection to make a right.

You'll be on a small street with construction barricades at the beginning. Head to the next intersection to make another right. Go straight through one more intersection, and a few steps in after the bus, on your right, you should see balloons under the scaffolding at a store entrance. Touchdown is on the white sign with purple lettering above the right balloons. Turn and go in the direction with traffic. You will be in a tunnel with orange and white cones in front of you. Continue straight. You will go into another tunnel. When you come out you will go under a bridge. To you right you will see 2 orange and white cones with a blue and white sign to the right. Touchdown is in middle of sign . Take a slight left, and head up the small street with the parking on your right, and the red marquee'd glass building on your left.

Head to the intersection, and make a left. Halfway up this street, on your right, you'll see a red and blue awning stores right next to each other. Touchdown is in the symbol of the blue awning, in the middle. Follow traffic into the intersection and go right, so the pleasing yellow arches, smelling of grease and nostalgia, are to your right. When you reach the next light, go right.  Go right at the light after that as well. 

To your right will be a bright blue display, and to your left, green trim on the brick building. Go to the end of that building, and stop before reaching the k-walls in front of the chain-link fence on your left. Rotate right.

To the left of the steel roll-up door and to the right of the red awning is a small brown door with a white surveillance camera above and right of it. Touchdown is atop that. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  There will be  black van next to you.  Ahead you'll see some orange barrier cones.  Turn left at this small intersection.  At the very next intersection turn left again (it dead ends at a fire hydrant when you need to turn left).
Go forward and you'll see a small side street to the right, ignore it.  Just past that is a small street to the left.  Go past it.  On the left next to the yellow and black vehicles you'll see a bright yellow sign with two people on it.  Touchdown is on that sign. Go to the closest intersection and turn right. Orange road barriers will be on the right side of the street. Turn right at the next intersection. Paid parking on the right. Turn right again at the next intersection and paid parking is still on your right. Turn right at the next intersection and the paid parking lot is still on the right. 
Stop next to the blue dumpster on the right  Sitting in the middle of the dumpster is an orange road barrier. Touchdown is sitting where the hole is for the light on the barrier. Turn so you are traveling with traffic.Go down the street. At the light take a right. Here you will see a building with white columns on your left. Go straight down this street. At the intersection go straight. Stop in the middle of the next light you come to. Touchdown is sitting on top of the trashcan on the right side of the street. There is a white trash bag beside the trashcan I am referring to and it is slightly occluded by a light post.   Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the barber shop on your right. Move forward to the next intersection and take a left. There will be a grocery store on your right and a coffee shop on the left. Continue moving forward to the next intersection and take a left. There will be a bank on your left and a building with a marble facade on your right. Continue forward towards the next intersection. You will pass an area with a green fence on the right and a building with a red awning to the left of that. Continue forward and stop just before you enter the next intersection. Turn to your right and you will see a green pole with two black signs that have white arrows. Touchdown is sitting at the base of the green pole. Follow the flow of traffic, with the green awning on your left, and make a left at the first intersection, with the line of trees along your right. Stop before you get to the corner, where there are flags on the scaffolding to your left. Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant to your right. Head the same direction as traffic. At the first intersection turn right. There will be a sign with green on it to your right. Go straight through the first intersection you come to. At the second intersection make a left. After you turn you will see a small section of orange fencing on the right side.Go straight to the end of this block.  Stop in the middle of the next intersection you come to. You should see a yellow bike and a black bike locked to a pole on the right corner. Touchdown is on the seat of the yellow bike.  You are on a one way road, go with the flow of traffic. At the next intersection make a right, You will have a blue and yellow store front on the left corner, continue straight to the next intersection and then make another right. There will be a white building with worn red awning on the left. Go to the next intersection and make a left, stopping just past the crosswalk then turn around and go back to the intersection, this time going straight through. There will be a red square short pole on the left. Go straight and before the next intersection on the left will be a short staircase with a black door at the top with a red awning, stop in front of this. Touchdown will be on the brass door knob on this black door.  Follow the flow of traffic and turn left at the first intersection. Go forward and there will be two police vans parked on your right separated by a white car. The touch down is the center of the rear wheel of the van in front of the tailor.  Head to the left only slightly so that you are on the road and not on the side walk. Then make sure you go straight in the direction that puts the  bridge on your left side as you move. Go straight to the intersection. You will make a right and pass under the pedestrian walk way. When you get to the intersection turn right. As soon as you turn you'll see 2 green mailboxes on the right. Keep going straight. You won't get to the end of this block. As you go you will see a bus stop shelter on the right. Go a little more past that until you see a black gate on the right side that is open into a park area. Touchdown is on the ground in the opening of the gate. Hello. Please orient yourself facing the flow of traffic. You will be looking into an intersection. There will be a silver garage door with a colorful wall painting that has a big red heart to your right side. To your left side, there will be a building with red awning and a giant flag hanging down from the top of it.

Walk forward into the four-way intersection. Go straight through it.

Continue straight on this path. You will pass by some scaffolding with green awning on your right side. 

When you reach the next four-way intersection, go straight through it again.

You will see a white building with gold character symbols on the sign above it and gold cursive letters. Walk forward until you on the far left side of the path with the parked cars. You will be forced to shift to the right to proceed. This is okay. 

Keep going straight to the next four-way intersection. Turn left.

To your left side, you will see a black building with a silver awning that has red letters with blue character symbols and a black accent above it. 

Walk forward slowly. You will pass a parked white van on your right side. Keep your eyes on the right side. Ahead you will approach a white and red sign with red and white letters on it. Below, there is a small rectangle blue sign with white numbers on it. Further down the pole, there is a small pink sign halfway up.

Touchdown will be on the small pink sign on the pole to your right side. Good luck! Align yourself so the intersection is straight in front of you. You'll make a right here. At the next right, head down this street. There should be a bunch of palettes on your right when you make the turn. Ignore the right turn, and head in to the intersection. Head straight just after and you should see a bunch of orange barricades not being used in front of you. Touchdown is on the orange and yellow light of the left barricade. Turn and go in the same direction as the traffic. You will go straight at this intersection. Turn left at the next intersection. A building with bright blue is on your right. Then left at intersection. You will see 2 large red, white, and blue flags on the left.  Go straight thru the next intersection. And straight at the next one and stop. There will be some gray barricades on the right. There will be a fire hydrant at the beginning of the barricades and touchdown is sittin on top.  Head in the same direction as traffic into the intersection.  Turn right.  There will be a building with light gray block and arches on your right and a store on the left with globe lights above the windows.  Move forward down this street until you reach a stoplight.  At the stoplight, turn right.  A building with light gray block and arches will again be on your right, and there will be a metal fence and some trees on your left.  Head down this street until you reach the intersection.  Enter the intersection, then turn to your left.  You will see a food stand with blue umbrellas over it on the sidewalk.  In front of that stand is a pole with a red and white sign with a picture of a bike on it.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this sign.   Orient yourself with the flow of traffic and the black and white stripped awnings on your right.  Head through the first intersection and you will end up with scaffolding on your left and a median row of trees.  At the next intersection, turn left and you will see red and white striped awnings on the right and light blue awnings on the left.

Moving forward, you will pass a scaffold on your right and a large red and white banner further down.  Keep going and you'll see a row of blue bikes on the left, turn left at the intersection just past the bikes.

Head forward and when you're about halfway to the next intersection, you will see a bright yellow painting in a window slightly ahead of you.  In front of that is a pole with a blue band at the top which is where you will find Touchdown hiding. Turn and face the direction where there are two motorcycles parked on the left side of the street. At the first intersection turn right. The window on the right corner will have a winter scene painted on it. Take another right at the next intersection you come too. Continue down this road, you will pass a fenced playground on the right side, followed by a large opening in the building. On the left side of the street, there is a large greenish bus parked. On the right side of the roadd there are a set of brown double doors. The Touchdown is on the handles of the door.  Turn so the intersection is behind you, and travel in the direction of traffic. There is a red awning ahead on the left. At the next intersection, go right. Go past the two blue mailboxes immediately to your right, and stop in front of the bus stop after them. Turning to look at the left side of the street, Touchdown is sitting on the very top of the second planted tree from the left.  The tree is much smaller than the other ones.  Face the same direction as the cars parked on the side of the street. Go straight to your first intersection. You will come to a "Y" in the road. Dont go to the left. You want to head straight toward the green canopy. When you get to the dead end intersection take a left.

There will now be a short black iron fence on your right and residences on your left. Go straight to the intersection. There will be a bank with a blue canopy on your left and a billboard with a cell phone on it to your right up high. 

Move into the center of this intersection and look to your right. There will be lots of metal newspaper boxes lining a green railing. Touchdown will be sitting on the red box. Position yourself so there is a white van on your left in front of a white delivery vehicle also on your left. Move forward and go past the first three way intersection. Keep moving straight and take a left the the next intersection with a subway entrance on the right. Once you go left go forward. Right before the next intersection there is a group of trash bags on your left. Touchdown is on the red square pole behind the trash bags.  Turn until the gray and tan fire hydrant is to your left and the white awning is to your right. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. There should be a blue awning to your left. Walk straight to the next intersection and turn right. There should be a brown church to your left. Walk straight until there is a purple awning to your left. Turn right. You should see a doorway with a green pipe to the right of it and a red pipe to the left of it. Touchdown is placed on top of the red pipe. If you are in the correct position there should be a grayish whitish building with large pillars and no wooden revolving door on your right. In your left should be a building with a gold sign with white letters. Directly across the street you should see a brick building which appears to be a church it is in the right and has a black fence around it. You need to head straight and go through the intersection towards that church. When you reach the next intersection please turn right. You should now be on the side of the church. What that facing your right side. To your left should be a white building with a green awning. Please continue straight. You will pass a green dumpster with a blue tarp. It will be on your right hand side. When you pass that dumpster on your right hand side you will see a white building with a green awning. The green awning has an address on it in white. Touchdown is in front of the address on the awning. Align yourself with the flow of traffic. Go forward two steps, and then back up the corner road. Follow this road up to the intersection, and make a right. Make another right at the next intersection. Later down the road, you should see a ladder on some scaffolding. Touchdown is on the cone closest to you at the bottom of the ladder. Hello there!

1. Orient yourself by turning to the right to go with the flow of traffic. There should be a dark blue storefront to your right, and the street dividers should be to your left.

2. Moving forward, you'll immediately find yourself in an intersection. Pass straight through it.

3. Continue until you reach the next intersection. Take a left here. When you orient yourself to head down this road, there should be a building with scaffolding and graffiti to your left. A pale building with two small, blue signs should be on your right.

4. When you move forward, you'll immediately find yourself in another intersection. Simply pass straight through it. Continue to the next intersection, and take a left.

5. When you orient yourself to head down this road, you should find black storefronts to your right and left. Move down this road for a while.

6. Stop when, to your immediate left, there's a store with a black awning with a few bikes tied to a signpost in front of it. To your immediate right, there's a small, fenced-in area with several garbage bags on the ground and a green door at the end of a small set of steps. In front of this area is a black fire hydrant between two small posts. Touchdown is sitting on the very top of the hydrant.

Good luck! :) Orient yourself with traffic on the one way street. At the end of the block, turn right. Turn right again at the next intersection. You'll pass a tarp-covered red dumpster and then a blocked-off construction area on your left. Just after passing the construction area is a blue storefront underneath the scaffolding with a neon lit bar sign in the window. Touchdown is on the bar sign.   Turn so you are heading the same direction as the cars. Stop at the intersection close by and turn left. Head down this street for a longer distance. When you come to an intersection with traffic lights take a left. Touchdown is on top of the blue mailbox on the right side of the road. Orient yourself with the flow of traffic and turn left at the first intersection. Turn left again at the next intersection. There will be an outdoor seating area surrounded by red signs on your left and a blue dumpster on your right. Continue all the way down the block until just before the next intersection. To your right there is a graffiti-covered mailbox on the corner. Touchdown is on top of the mailbox. Orient yourself so that the brown brick building is on your left. Move forward until you reach an intersection, and turn right. At the next intersection, turn right again. Now on your right is a black store sign with red awning. Move ahead just past the green awning on your right and stop. After the green awning is a tan brick portion of wall with a faded red round thing on the wall. Touchdown is on the faded red circle. Go in the direction that puts the median to your left, at the next intersection make a right. The store ahead to the right will have a black with white awning. Go to the next intersection and make a right again. There will be fire escape stairs on the building to your right. Continue to the next intersection and stop in the middle of the intersection. Ahead to your right will be a black wrought iron fence and to ahead to the left will be a chain link fence. On the corner on the right with the black wrought iron fence is a fire hydrant. Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant.  Go with traffic to the light and go right. There'll be blue bike rentals to the left and scaffolding to the right. Go to the light and go right.  There'll be a building with an American flag and a white flag after it, but you won't hear Dido singing. Go into the intersection, but don't cross the crosswalk on the other side. Rotate to your right, and you'll see three silver trashcans to your right, with a blue bag, a green bag, and a black bag.  Touchdown is centered atop the green one. You are at an intersection, go down the road that will place the building with the flag on your left and the building with a ton of windows to the right. Go all the way to the next intersection and make a right. You will have a body of water to the left of you and stores to the right. At the next intersection you will go right and stop on the crosswalk. On the right corner will be a red brick building and on the left will be a gray building. On the corner with the gray building will be a black fire hydrant. Touchdown is at the tip of the fire hydrant.  Begin moving with the flow of traffic. A brick building with bright red doors will be on your right and a colorful mural will be on a gray building on your left. Go straight through the first intersection. 

Just after you pass a fenced in playground on your left, you'll arrive at the second intersection. Turn right there. After you turn, a purplish-blue building with a silver door will be on your right. 

Just ahead is an orange and white construction barrier on your right. When the construction ends, you're at an intersection. Stop before even walking through the crosswalk and look to the left. There are two park benches on the median. Touchdown is sitting on the bench that's closest to you.  Orient yourself so the trailer behind the chain link fence is on the right side of the street. Continue straight through one intersection and then straight through a three-way intersection. Continue straight until you see a bus stop on the left, which has a mouth on the advertisement on the side of the bus stop, and an orange traffic cone up ahead. Touchdown is on top of the orange cone.  You're going to make your way with traffic. There will be a white truck in front of you. Instantly, you will make a right until you get to the intersection and then take a right. You should see a bunch of red on the left buildings. Continue down this road past the first side street, the second side street, and then you should come to the intersection that has a blue overhang on the left. You're going to take a right. On your right you should see buildings that are boarded up from the inside. Your touchdown will be the top of the red post on the right.  Align yourself with the food truck on your right, and the scaffolding on your left. Head in to the intersection and make a right. Make another right at the next intersection. Head all the way down until you almost get to the next intersection.

You'll step past construction blockades on your left, and scaffolding on your right for most of the street. Stop at the end of the blockades, and on the right side of the street, you should see four poles you use to have people wait in line. Touchdown is on the right most pole. Go in the same direction as traffic and left at the upcoming intersection. At the next intersection, go left again. This is a narrow one way street with construction on both sides. At the next intersection, with multiple crisscross white lines in it, go left and stop after turning. On the corner of the store to your right, there is a white and black light. Touchdown is on top of it.  Face yourself so you see the goldish building on your right that also has red down the street and you should see a big red overhang on your left. You will pass construction barriers on your left. You will go through the first intersection and there will be an ice cream truck on your left. You will come up to a big blue truck on your left that has white lettering with a blue flag thing blowing on the right. You will see a parking sign that is white with red letters on the left. Your touchdown is in the middle.  From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the parked cars on your street.  There will be a red brick wall on your left.  Walk a short distance, and stop in the middle of the intersection.

Turn to your left, and you will be looking down a street with a red brick building on your left with a large blue door.  Start walking down this street.  

Walk straight through the first intersection you come to, and pass a large brown van parked on the left.  

Walk just a little bit further, and stop when you have passed some large white letters painted on the road surface.  

Look to your left and see a small phone booth with blue posters.  Touchdown the Bear is sitting right on top of that booth.

 Follow traffic to the light and go left. Go through the next three lights, but STOP just before crossing the crosswalk on the other side.  You'll see a shop with a red sign band and white dimensional letters.

Ahead and to your left is an American flag. Touchdown is impaled upon the pole. Turn and go in the direction with the traffic. Turn right at intersection. You will be on a cobble stone street. Turn right at intersection. You will see some red awnings on the left. turn right at intersection. Black awnings to the right. Then purple awnings. Then scaffolding on the right. Then a gray building. Stop at the end of the gray building and there is a orange cone turned over in front of a bicycle. Touchdown is sitting by the cone on the ground. Turn in the direction where the building with all the windows is on the right and the trees on the left. Go thru the tunnel in front of you. When you come out of the other end of the tunnel continue to the right around the building. Go straight thru the 2 red and white octagon signs. As soon as you pass all the doors on the right stop. Look to the left and touchdown is sitting on the gray and white fire hydrant between 2 yellow poles.  align yourself with traffic, and the res dumpster to your left. Follow this street all the way to the intersection and take a left, you will be going with traffic and there will be a glass building just ahead to your left. At the next intersection take a left, this is a one way street with a red brick building to your left with a blue door, continue straight, a little ways down this street there is an orange dumpster on the left side of the road, just before the dumpster there is a building with large arched windows, the door is arched as well, there is a green fire hydrant before the door, touchdown id=s on the hydrant Turn so you'll be moving with the flow of traffic on this one-way street.  Go forward until you reach an intersection, and turn right. 
Now you'll have a store with a bright red sign on your right.  Go forward until you reach another intersection, and make another right.
You'll now have a red brick building on your right, that also has dark red awnings over the store (the awnings don't stick out).  Move forward until you're even with the last couple of small storefronts in that red brick building.  Right next to you on your right will be a square parking pole or kiosk that has a blue stripe around the top.  The bear is on top of this parking kiosk.
 Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  You should see scaffolding on your right and scaffolding ahead on the left.  Go forward through this and turn right at the intersection ahead.  Head down to the next intersection past some flags on the right and a ladder.  Turn right.  Head down this street and you should see scaffolding ahead on the right.
At the end of the scaffolding you will see a red and white sign on top of a green and white sign on a pole that Touchdown is hiding on. With the construction to your right, go straight and take the first right. go through the first intersection and then proceed forward, with the park to your left. Up high, to the right, there are brick buildings. Note the part that has a chain link fence above it. Touchdown is sitting on top of the machine behind the fence. Turn and follow traffic down the street. The tall buildings are on your right. You will be going toward a bridge. Before you get to it there is a green and white sign sitting on top of a black and white sign with arrows on your right. Touchdown is sitting on top of the green and white sign.  From the starting position, face the same direction that traffic is going in. You'll see a traffic light and a large glass building ahead of you. You straight through the first intersection. You'll reach a 2nd intersection, which you'll go straight through also. Once you get to the 3rd intersection, you'll take a left. Move past the parking lot that is on your right. You'll see a traffic light and a crosswalk. To your right will be a brick church building. If you look up to your left you'll see a flag on a flagpole. Touchdown is sitting on the top of the flagpole. Move forward down the road with the blue canopy on the right and trees on the left. Continue past the black fence on the left. Continue past the park to the intersection and turn right. Going with traffic flow, turn right at next intersection. Go past the large plants in pots on the left. Turn the little curve to the left to the stop signs. Touchdown is sitting on the sidewalk next to a green bottom building with tan & brown paint looks like its dripping down the side. Turn so you are facing the direction of moving traffic. Go straight until you come to an intersection. Once you are in the middle of the intersection, take a sharp right turn. Once you turn, there will be a grassy area with a short fence around it on your left and some green scaffolding up ahead on the right. Go straight until you come to a right turn. There is no light or stop sign. There is a one way sign on a pole on the right. Turn right. Once you turn right, you will be on a small one way street, with trees on the left side. Go straight. Go straight through the stop sign. Continue straight and follow the road as it curves to the right. You will start to see a light up ahead at an intersection. At this intersection, look to the left corner closest to you. Near this corner is a group of newspaper boxes that are yellow and blue. Touchdown is sitting on top of the blue box.  face the direction of travel (same as the direction the cars are parked.)
turn right at the first intersection. you will see two white box trucks. turn right at the first intersection after them. go past a blue junk truck. go past a van on the right that has its back doors open. Touchdown is in the back of the minivan on the left that has its hatch and doors open. Face in the direction of traffic and walk to the end of the block. At the intersection, turn left. There will now be the green construction scaffolding on your right. Walk to the end of the block. Go through this intersection and look to your right.

Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant that comes after the end of the fencing and orange and white striped traffic barrels. Position yourself so that you are facing the way that traffic is flowing.
Head up to first intersection.  You will see construction and a big sign with a black arrow on a red background.  Go straight through the intersection.  When you come to the next intersection, you will continue to go straight.  On the left you will see green awnings with pictures of eyeglasses.  At the next intersection, you will see red traffic cones towards the left.  You will turn left at this intersection.  There is a red ladder and red traffic cones on your right.  Continue straight through this.
Before you get to the next intersection, you will see a building on your right that has a triangle on the top of the door.  The bear is placed on top of the triangle. Go the same direction as traffic as the roads curves. Stay with traffic through a short tunnel. When you come out of that tunnel you will see an over pass ahead that has a yellow sign on it above. Touchdown is in the middle of that sign. Turn to go in the same direction as traffic. A parking lot with a gate is on the right.  Turn right at intersection. Go straight thru the next intersection. And straight at the next traffic light. Turn right at the next intersection. A building with orange is on the left. A parking lot with a fence on the right. Right past the parking lot is a beige building and in front is a mail box with graffiti on it. Touchdown is on top.  Move with traffic, at the 1st intersection take a right. There is a fence with gold accents on your left, at the next intersection take another right. There is an atm next to a red awning on your left. At the next intersection, take another right, the building on your right has an american flag, under the flag are two windows with red frames, the bear is on the right frame face the nearby intersection. you will turn right here. once you turn there will be construction cones on your left. head down that street. you will pass three yellow school buses parked on the right. keep going. just before you get to the intersection you will see a fire hydrant on your left. Touchdown is on top of it. Going with the flow of traffic, go straight through the first intersection.  There will be light blue posters in the windows to your right.  Keep going straight at the next intersection, you might have to side step to do so.  You will have a row of potted plants to your right.  There will be a fork in the road, take a left. You'll see potted plants to your left and a park beyond that.  There will be a vendor on the sidewalk after that.  Touchdown is at the base of the first tree, on the green bag, after the vendor on your left. Move with traffic flow to the intersection. Turn left.

Go to the next intersection and turn left. 

Go straight down this road with orange and white barricades to your right. There will be a large yellow building to your right. Touchdown is on the top corner of that building closest to you.  Face the flow of traffic, and walk to the first intersection, where you'll take a left. After a short walk, take another left at the first intersection you come to. Walk forward past the rental bike racks on the left, and you'll soon see three large doors on your right blocked with a gate-like structures. On the pillar separating the center door from the left door, there's a small, golden plaque. This is where you'll find Touchdown. Turn so you are heading in the same direction as traffic. Go straight until you reach the first intersection. Take a right at the intersection. You will be going the same direction as traffic again. There are red awnings on a store to the left and a green awning on a store to the right. Go straight until you reach the very next intersection. Turn right again. After you turn there is a store with a striped awning on your left. Go forward only a short distance until you see 2 motorcycles parked together on the left side of the street.  Touchdown is on the seat of the first one. Follow traffic and go right at the light. Go right again at the next one. A red building will be on the righthand corner. Proceed about halfway down the block.  Stop before you pass the red light on the scaffolding on your right.  Look ahead and to your left, to see an olive colored mailbox against the wall before a black awning with white text.

Touchdown sits centered atop the olive colored mailbox. Move against the flow of traffic into that close intersection and turn left.
Now you are again moving against traffic and you should have red store letters/sign on your left, and red awnings on your right. Move down this street, straight through the first intersection.
 After that you will pass a yellow newspaper box on your right. Soon after that on your left is a red store sign with blue letters, followed by a blue awning. Touchdown is in the middle of the red awning. position yourself so you are following the traffic direction. Go forward a little bit till you reach the scaffolding on the left side of road. Turn left here. So the scaffolding is on your right now. Go to the intersection, turn left. Go straight to the next intersection. You will pass a brown delivery truck with 3 letters logo on the back. At this intersection, you will turn left. Now the red awning with white letters will be on your right. Now go straight and stop at the next intersection. Now turn left again. Now the Chinese style building with red poles is on your left . In the corner of the intersection, there is a store with green awning and white letters on the first floor in the Chinese style building. There is a green/white logo of that store on the window. The touchdown is on that logo in the middle.   Going with the flow of traffic, go to the first intersection and turn right.  Go to the next intersection and turn right.  Up ahead on your right, there's a store that has navy blue awnings with a grey trim.  Touchdown is sitting on the first one right above the number. Follow the flow of traffic down to the first traffic light and turn right.  At the next traffic light turn right.A little way down this road on your right is a building with a yellow awning and a bench. Next to the bench are 2 planters Touchdown is playing,right in front of the taller bush in the planter on the right. Follow the flow of traffic to the intersection.  Turn right.  Walk to the next intersection.  Turn right.  Head down to this road. You will find a parking area with a silver car in the air.  Just past this parking area there is graffiti on a garage door.   The bear is in the bellow button of the character.  (Right side of street) Turn so the stone building is on your right and the intersection is ahead of you. Walk down with traffic and turn at that intersection.

On your right will be a shop with a long black sign with a red and green stripe.

Walk down to the next intersection and turn right again. You'll walk to the end of this block and stop. On the sign of the restaurant to your right, there is a representation of a bird's head. Touchdown is the middle of this bird.

 Go with the flow of traffic.  You'll immediately come to the three-way intersection.  Go straight.  When you reach the first four-way intersection, the one with the big clock on a pole, turn right.  Go to the next intersection and turn right again.  You'll now be going down a narrow street with scaffolding on the right.  Head down this street.  On your right, watch for some scaffolding with blue (instead of green) plywood on the top.  Pass this.  You'll then see come construction barricades on the sidewalk to the right.  Pass these as well and then stop immediately.  Turn 90 degrees to your left.  You should be facing two identical off-white doors.  In between then is a black column, and in front of that, a gray pole.  Touchdown is sitting at the base of this gray pole.   Turn so that the intersection is behind you and walk ahead. You will pass a storefront on your left with a blue awning sign with a small picture of washing machines on it. Walk ahead on this long street. Go straight across the 4 way intersection you come to. Pass by some green benches between brick buildings on your right. Ahead on your right, see a yellow sign with black silhouettes on it. Go directly beside it and turn toward the building on your left. You will see 2 white doors.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the light that is above those doors.  Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street and the store with the closed security gate is on your left.  Go forward and straight through the stop sign intersection.  At the second stop sign intersection, turn right.  
After the turn you'll have a cafe with bright yellow awnings and outdoor tables on your right.  Go straight through one intersection, and at the one right after that turn right.  
You'll be on a street with a green-painted bike lane on your left.  On your right is a restaurant with a brightly colored mural on the wall by the sidewalk.  There are a couple of closed shops on your right after the place with the mural (security gates down).  After you pass these closed shops, start watching the left side of the street (way across the street from you). You'll see a brown awning as you go, followed by a blue one and then two purple ones right in a row.  Stop when you're in line with the farther purple awning (a smidge past it).  The bear is in the center of the second purple awning (more to your right if you're facing the awnings). Go with traffic through the stop sign and take a right at the next set of stop signs, where the shop with bright yellow awnings is to your right. Go right again when you get to the SECOND light. There will be black awning to your right and a green bike stripe on the road to the left.  Stop when you PASS the hydrant on your left, and rotate left to face the street lamp pole dead on. The hydrant is now to the left of it. Touchdown is on the white cap of the hydrant. Orient yourself so that you are moving with the flow of traffic. Move ahead to the intersection and turn right. At the next intersection, turn right again. Now you should have a striped orange and purple awning on your right. Continue ahead; you'll pass a scaffolding area on your right. Then pass straight through the first pedestrian intersection. Just before the next intersection, on your right is a red awning with white writing. Touchdown is in the middle of the white writing. Follow the traffic, with the chained fence on your left, and make a right at the first intersection, down and stop at the corner without turning right. Touchdown is at the base of the first tree next to the brown building, near the yellow pedestrian crossing sign on your right. Orient yourself with the flow of traffic. A large bridge will be to your left. At the first intersection, turn left and travel under the bridge. Turn left again at the next intersection so the bridge is still on your left. Continue straight through the first four-way intersection. A little past that intersection, there will be a driveway and chain link gate on your left. Touchdown is on top front corner of the concrete rectangle to the left of the red sedan. Turn so that the green construction is on your left and you are following the direction of traffic.  Follow that road and turn left at the first intersection.  There should be orange and white barriers on your right now.  Travel down that road and stop before you get to the crosswalk of the next intersection.  Look to your right and there is a yellow newspaper box near a black fire hydrant.  Touchdown is on top of the yellow newspaper box. Turn so your back is to the intersection and you are going the correct way down this street. When you get to the intersection make a right turn. Go straight down this road until you get to a small 4 way intersection that has no stoplight and keep going straight. You will pass a large pile of blue and white trash bags on the left. At the next intersection make a right turn. As soon as you turn you'll see large columns on the building to your right. Go straight. At the intersection keep going straight a little ways. You'll pass a long green awning on the right side. Right after you are past that you should see a store on the right with items in front of it for sale. Turn and face the right and there is a tree right there in front of you. Touchdown is on the ground at the base of the tree.  Turn to face the same direction as traffic flows. Move up the street and into the intersection. Make a left.  Go up the block and straight through the next intersection. At the second intersection make a right. You should see yellow brick buildings on both sides of the street. Watch the right hand side of the road. You will see A black awning over the entrance of the first yellow brick building. Stop in front of it. Next to the entrance, on the sidewalk, you will see a metal pole with a blue stripe across the top of it. Touchdown is on top of the metal pole.  Walk into that intersection and then turn left.  Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left (Just past the pharmacy).  There is a camouflage van on this road.  Continue forward to the intersection and turn left.   Take a few steps and pass the covered area on the right.  There is a red bike that is chained up.  The bear is on the seat.   Face so the playground is on your left, and the nearby intersection is behind you.  The first intersection has a lot of temporary markings made in the middle; pass straight through this intersection.  You'll pass a construction area on the left with lots of orange cones and you'll notice you are approaching a bridge ahead.  As you get closer to the bridge you'll pass through another intersection.  Stop when you are directly under the bridge.  To your right will be scaffolding.  To your left is a bridge support with a large arch between two smaller arches.  Through the middle arch you'll see a closed car-sized door with white signs on each side of it.  Touchdown is on the sign to the left. Follow the flow of traffic.  Go through first intersection.  Continue forward.  At the next intersection turn left.  You will pass the bike rentals on your right.  Continue forward to the next intersection.  Turn left.  Walk forward towards the pile of trash (On your left).  Look for a green mailbox.  The bear is on top of the green mailbox (Before the trash pile). Turn until the black metal fence is on your right and the white building is on your left. Walk straight until you reach the second intersection. Do not stop at the three way intersection with the red post near it. You want to keep walking to the next three way intersection. Once you are there there should be a red brick building in front of you to the right on the corner. Turn right so that building is now on your left. Now walk down the street you are now facing. Stop when you get to the end of the street. There should be blue metal scaffolding to your left. Touch down is just above the light in the middle of the scaffolding when you are facing it.  Follow traffic to the light. Go left.  Stop after the last orange k-wall on the right.

Touchdown is on the white capped black hydrant ahead to the right. Turn so that you're walking with the flow of traffic. Continue straight at the next intersection, then turn right at the second intersection where the construction at the left side ends. Continue straight and turn right at the first intersection. Continue straight past the first intersection where you'll enter a street with orange and white construction barriers on your left. Touchdown is sitting on the first yellow light on those construction barriers after you enter the street. Move so you are heading away from the intersection and in the same direction as traffic. You won't make a turn at that intersection. You should have some silver cans one with a blue lid and one with a green lid on your right side. Go straight. When you reach the next intersection. turn right.  There is a hot dog cart with a blue and yellow umbrella on the left side and a blue mailbox on the right side. Go straight. When you get to the first intersection keep going straight. At the next intersection turn right. You are now on a brick street and there is a graffiti covered mailbox on the right side. Go a short distance down the street until you are next to a red box truck - not the dump truck. Touchdown is on the orange traffic cone that has two white stripes that is close to the front tire of the red box truck. Go with traffic flow through the first intersection in front of you. At the next intersection, turn left. When you turn there will be red awnings on your right.

Go straight though the next intersection. Just ahead you will see scaffolding on the right. Don't go that far. Look to your left and there is a bike rack. Touchdown is in the very middle of the bike rack, sitting on top where the 2 sections meet. 

 Turn so the big fenced play area is to your left. Go through the first intersection, go past the road that goes to the left further down. Beyond the construction cones on your left. There are many parked cars on the right, but not too many on the left. There are some bicycles parked on the sidewalk next to a green pole. Touchdown is sitting on the bike, ready to ride it. Turn so the park is on your left. At the light ahead go right. At the next light take a right. Purple awning on your left. Go straight down this street passing through one intersection. At the next light take a right. You will pass a purple banner hanging on the brick building to your right. At the end of this street take a right. Go straight until you are almost up to the trash truck parked to the left. There will be a pair of wood doors to your immediate right side. Touchdown is sitting on top of the very last orange traffic cone closest to the intersection.  Turn and walk in the same direction as traffic. Go right at the first intersection. You will pass a bright blue painted building on your right, across the street from a blue trimmed circle window on your left.  Go right at the first intersection. There will be a yellow sign with a black see saw on a sign on the left corner of the street you are entering. Walk ahead. Pass by an empty lot with an iron fence in front of it on your right. Just past the lot, turn and face the building next to it, on your right. It has a green storefront sign with white lettering. Touchdown will be sitting in the middle of the air conditioner directly above the door under that green awning.  Turn so the tunnel and bridge are at your back, and you're walking with the flow of traffic.  Go forward, and the road splits into a Y in front of you.  Stay to the left part of that Y.  As you go around the curve to the left here, you'll have an intersection in front of you.  Go straight through that intersection so you're going between the building with the lit-up corners on your right and the big square building with the huge arches on your left.  Go straight for one more short block, and when you get to the light go straight through it.  Once you're out of the intersection, look on the right and count the closed security/garage doors over the store fronts.  Stop when you're even with the fifth closed security gate, which is more silver colored than the others and has a scalloped green awning over it.  The bear is in the center of the solid part of that security gate.   Orient yourself with traffic and proceed forward. Go through the first intersection, but turn right at the second. Some green scaffolding will be on the left on this road, stop when you are at about the midpoint of the scaffolding. On the right will be a store with a red sign on the sidewalk. Touchdown is using the sign as a roof, sitting under it. You're standing in an intersection when you begin.  Turn yourself so the building with the green awnings is on your right, and the building with blue awnings is on your left.  You'll be going with the flow of traffic on this one-way street.  Move forward, and at the next intersection turn left.  
You're now on a much narrower street.  Up ahead you should see some large red banners hanging from light posts.  This is a long block - go all the way to the end of it and turn left at the intersection.  
Now you're on a block where you have all sorts of bushes on the right and a brick building with a big blue door on the left.  After the blue door on your left, that brick building has three large rectangular tan sections in a row.  Stop when you're even with the middle tan section.  Look at the sidewalk between the first and second tan section.  There is a large yellow square on the sidewalk.  The bear is in the center of that square.  turn until you are facing the under bridge and  go into the tunnel area, once you exit you will see a wall to your left with trees and ivy planted on top. Go to the end of the street and take a right, there is a glass building to the right, and a wall to the left. follow this street to the end, you will see a green bike perched agains a sign, the bear is on the seat of the bike Go with traffic. Turn left at the first intersection. Turn left again at the next intersection. Look right and stop next to the orange traffic cone in front of the large white truck and under the green scaffolding.Touchdown is sitting on top of the orange traffic cone. Turn so the you going with traffic. Go one block and take a right. Go straight at the close by light. Go straight at the next intersection. At the next light take a right. On your left you will see a graffiti wall. Go straight here. Go a short distance and stop before you get to the white SUV parked on the right side of the road. Look to your left. You will see a red brick building with a small oval sign beside the door. Touchdown is in the middle of this oval.  Stand so you are following the flow of traffic. Go to the next 4-way intersection and turn left. Continue until the next 4-way intersection and turn left again. Continue until on your left is a small store with neon blue and yellow writing in the window. Touchdown is in the middle of the neon writing. Orient yourself so the green bike lane is on your left and the brick building with the green awning is also on your left. Continue forward to the next intersection and go straight. You should see a building with an outdoor seating area surrounded by several potted plants on your right. Continue forward to the next intersection and take a right.  you should see a building with large windows and red Onyx on your right hand a bank on the left. Continue forward down the street to the next intersection and take another right. On the right you should see three trees and on the left side of the road  your view will be obscured by several box trucks. Continue forward and go past the three-way intersection. Continue forward and stop when you have reached the crosswalk of the next intersection.  turn to your right and you will see an orange and white construction barrel next to a gray traffic light pole. Click the base of the orange and white construction barrel to find touchdown. Position yourself so the black fire escape is to your right and scaffolding is just ahead on the right. Move forward and turn right down the side street just ahead. When you turn there will be big planters along the left side.

Go forward. Do not turn where the blue awning is on your right. Just go straight, going past the park on your left. Keep going to the next intersection and turn right. When you turn there will be a brownstone on your left with a greenish blue door. Move forward a bit, past the red awning on the right, at the end of the brownstone on the left, stop. There is a gray square pole just past the red awning on the right with a blue stripe around the top. Touchdown is on top of that square pole.

 Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic facing away from the nearby intersection. Continue moving forward going straight through the first intersection. There'll be some scaffolding with a green awning on your left. Move forward to the next intersection and take a left. There should be a bank just your left and you will now be going against the flow of traffic. Continue moving forward going straight past the three-way intersection. Move forward to the next intersection stopping when you are just passed the near crosswalk. Turn slightly left and you will see a light pole with a black sign that has a white Arrow in front of a building with a red awning. Touchdown is sitting at the base of the light pole. Stand so you are moving with traffic. Move straight through this intersection. Continue through a second intersection. When you reach a third, turn left. Move forward until you are almost at an intersection. On the corner on your left is a pole with a red bike chained to it. Touchdown is on the bike. Position yourself where you are facing straight towards a traffic light but there should be an American flag on your right. Head down that road passing the first traffic light until you reach another traffic light in which you should make a left turn. There should be a scaffolding building on your right once you make a left turn. Follow the road passing all the black banners on your left till you notice a traffic light at an intersection. At the traffic light make a left turn and chill. There should be a trash bin on your right hand side near the crosswalk you are in front of. The touchdown is sitting on top of the trash bin. Turn and go in the same direction as the traffic. Black sign with yellow on the left. Turn left at the intersection. Construction is on the right. On the left will be a parking garage. 3 gray garage doors on the left. Before you get to the intersection there is a gray hydrant on the left. Touchdown is sitting on top.   Turn so the park is on your right, and move forward to the nearby intersection.  Turn left.
On this block you'll have a pink storefront on your right.  Go forward until you reach the next intersection, and turn left again.  
Now you have a blue building with red awnings on your left, and some sort of industrial-looking brick building on your right.  Go to the other end of this block, and stop right in the middle of the intersection.  One one corner at this intersection there is a restaurant with red awnings.  There are potted palms on either side of the doorway.  The bear is on top of the palm on the right side of the doorway. You're standing at the entrance of an intersection when you begin. You should see a white building  with a black lettering and a red and white symbol across the intersection on your left. Move forward into this intersection and turn left. Now that same business you were just looking at is on your right and next to it is a restaurant with tables and chairs outside in front of it. 

Go to the next intersection and turn left. After you turn, there will be a gray building on your left with outdoor seating and a row or colorful posters on your right. When you get to the next intersection, you're going to move into the middle of it and look to the left corner that's slightly ahead of you still. The building is gray with a black sign and it has potted plants in front of it on the sidewalk. In front of the plants is a silver trash bin by the curb. Touchdown is sitting on top of the bin. Turn so that the red and yellow corner shop is on your right, as well as a green sign with a white person and arrow on it. Down this short portion of street, you will be in a confusing intersection. When in front of the V, you need to keep right. A building with rows of blue windows will be directly ahead. Upon moving toward it, you will be in another intersection. Go right. You should immediately see a red storefront on your right, with white letters and symbols on it. There is a similar yellow sign just after it, with red symbols. Go straight ahead. Go through the next intersection. After going through this one, there will be a yellows sign with red symbols on both sides of the street. Go ahead, passing between them. At the next intersection, go right. Just before crossing the crosswalk, stop. You will see a small white sign ahead on your right, with a red circle crossing out a black car. Touchdown is in the middle of that circle.  Go in the same direction as traffic. There will be a bus stop to your right.  Go to the first intersection and turn right.  There will be a park on your right.  Head down the street.  When can start to see the intersection in the distance, look on your left for a black awning with triangular bunting hanging off the bottom of it.  Pass this awning and then stop.  Turn to face the awning with the bunting.  The last triangle on the right is white.  Touchdown is sitting in front of this triangle.   Go with traffic to the light and right. There'll be a park on your left. Go right at the light. Ignore the first intersection, and go right at the next, where you see green scaffolding and k-walls ahead on the left, but don't cross the crosswalk.

You should have a store with a green sign band with red letter to your left, and a white concrete storefront with two big glass windows on your right. Take a single step backwards into the intersection. Now you should see a hydrant between two poles on the left side of the street in front of the building with the green sign band. Touchdown is on that hydrant. Orient yourself with the flow of traffic. There should be traffic travelling the other way on your left.

You will go straight. It will take you to a side street. 

Pass the first two intersections (they are T-shaped intersections) Move to the third intersection and turn right.

There should now be a median full of green grass and plants to your left, and a chainlink fence to your right. Go straight and stop at the first intersection.

There will be a red car parked on the right side of the street. Next to it is a yellow sign. The touch down is in the middle of the yellow sign.

 Turn to face with traffic, then go to the end of the block. Now take a left, around the grocery store with a green slanted roof, and go another block. Now take another left, toward the food cart. Now go forward until a brown building with a fire escape meets a white building with a flag with a bull hanging from it. Touchdown is in the center of the circle the bull is in. Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic. At the first traffic light turn right as you turn there will be a hardware store on your right go to the next traffic light and make another right turn. Just a few yards down this street you will see a loading dock on your left with the over head door open.Touchdown is sitting to the far right of the open door on the ledge Go with the flow of traffic.  Go to the intersection and turn right.  There will be a glass building on your right through which you can see a really colorful wall.  Head all the way down this long street to the intersection.  There will be a river in front of you.  Turn right at the intersection.  There will now be orange cones right next to you on your right.  Pass all of these cones.  You'll now see some yellow and black stripes on the wall by a garage door.  Pass these as well and stop immediately.  Turn to look at the building on your right.  There is a security camera to the left of the garage door.  Touchdown is sitting in front of this security camera.   Going with the flow of traffic proceed to the first intersection and take a right.  Walk down to the next intersection, right pass the Subway entrance and take another right.  Go to the next intersection, and take a right again.  Look for the business on the right hand side that has a navy awning and faux hedges out front.  Touchdown is sitting on the open doorway. Orient yourself so that the rocks and barrels are to your left. Take a left. Go straight down the cobblestone and take a left. go straight and take a left again, onto cobblestone. Go straight through the intersection. Touchdown is on top of a cone to the right. Face so that there is a blue truck parked on your left and a large bridge to your left. Go forward through the first intersection and turn left at the second intersection. Continue straight and then turn left at the next intersection. Continue straight, ignoring any intersections. There will be construction on your right. The road is painted to say "school" at one point. The touchdown is on the top of the yellow sign to your right. Orient yourself so that the blue building is on your left and the construction site is on your right. Go down the street and make a right at the traffic light. Go straight and stop after you pass the traffic light. there will be a glass building to your right with a flag to the right of it. Touchdown is on the flag. From your staring point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  You should see a hot-dog cart on your right.  Walk forward, and go straight through the first intersection you come to.  Go further, until you come to the next intersection.  When you are in the middle of the intersection, turn to your left so that you see the back of a big white truck.  Go forward, following this truck.  You should pass some trash bags on the left side of the street.  Go forward a bit further until you see a white car with a blue stripe on your right.  Touchdown the Bear is on top of the roof of that car. With the concrete median to your right and going against the flow of traffic in your lane.  Go to the intersection and turn right.  Go almost all the way down to the next intersection.  There will be a bike rental station to your right.  It's almost empty, except for one bike.  Touchdown is in the center of the back wheel of this blue bike. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Move forward, staying left at the split.  Do not take the off ramp.
Head down the road and you will pass some brick buildings that are rounded on the end.
Continuing forward, you'll eventually be overlooking tall fencing on your right around some courts.  Stop when you're next to where the green courts start.

Just ahead on the street below is a light pole.  Touchdown is on the light fixture at the end of the pole. Orient yourself so that you are going with traffic and on the left hand sidewalk you see silver construction poles. Go forward on this road. When you come to the first traffic light, make a right turn. At the next intersection, look to your left. On the corner you will see a trash can sitting behind a fire hydrant. Touchdown is sitting on top of the trash can.  position yourself so the orange barrels are on your left, and the parking building is on your right. Go straight, pass the trash truck with all black trash bags on the back. Continue going straight, pass the yellow school sign on your right. Go straight till you reach the intersection. Turn left at this intersection. You will see a bridge in front of you. Go to the intersection, Turn right at the intersection. You should see two police cars on your left, pass the police cars there will be a red sign with 4 white letters on it on the fence to your left . The touchdown is on the sign  Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Take your first left, then take the next left (You need to be on the far side of the street first, the controls are a little difficult).    Turn right at the next intersection.  Continue until you are next to a blue mailbox on the right.  The bear is on top. Turn and go in the direction with the traffic. Go straight at this intersection. Scaffolding is on the right. Turn left at the red and white octagon sign. Construction on the left. Black fence on the right. Turn left at intersection. Scaffolding on the right. A little ways down construction is on the left. Go straight at intersection. Red awning to the right.  Some scaffolding to the left and then some green boarding. There is a wood door open with an orange cone.Touchdown is on top of cone.  Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. The road should be sloping downward, and a bridge should be ahead.

2. Move forward, ignoring a three-way intersection underneath the aforementioned bridge. When you reach another three-way intersection shortly after that, veer towards the tunnel on the right. When you exit the tunnel, your destination should be close.

3. Once you've exited the tunnel, keep an eye on the yellow diamond sign affixed to a post on the right. When you've past it and are directly between it and the post with a diamond sign and a rectangular sign after it, stop. Touchdown is in the middle of the latter diamond sign (the one with an arrow on it).

Good luck! :) Face in the direction the traffic is going and go down the block until you reach the corner. Make a left and stop before you reach the second traffic light. There will be a white arrow on the street. To your right at the corner there will be a red letter with a red circle. Touchdown is in the middle of that logo above the door.. Follow traffic and turn left at the second light. Go left again at the next light. Pass through the next light. There'll be scaffolding to your right. Stop just as you reach the k-walls on your right. Rotate left.  You should see three windows with orange paper and white letters. Touchdown is in the center of the middle window, which has the largest white letters. Turn so you'll be walking in the same direction traffic is going.  Go straight through one intersection.  At the next intersection, make a U-turn (so you're going around the pedestrian median on this street and going back the way you came).  Go straight through one intersection, and stop just when you've just barely gone through the intersection.  There are a bunch of people on the sidewalk to your right.  The bear is on top of the fire hydrant in that area. With the building with arches on your left, go with the flow of traffic. Go straight through the first traffic light and turn left at the next.  You'll have scaffolding on your right.  At the end of this block will be a bunch of blue bikes on the right.  Touchdown will be sitting on the seat of the last bike that is closest to the stoplight. Go with the flow of traffic the the second traffic light and turn left.Go down this street and you will see a bunch of blue bikes on your left.Go past two traffic lights and you will see a bank on your left right after the bank there is a planter box on the sidewalk and touchdown is sitting in front of that box Go right and under the bridge. Follow traffic to the light, with the orange striped k-walls to your left. Go right at the light, heading into traffic.  Stop directly in front of the second metal fence on the street that has two small green signs. Look to your right, and you can see a hydrant on the sidewalk. Touchdown is atop it. Turn so the median with trees is to your left. Go down to the next corner and turn right. When you turn there's a short brick wall to your left and the median is to your right. Go to the next corner, which is a 3-way, and turn right. When you turn there is a large painting of a cartoon character on your right. Go down to the corner and turn right. When you turn there will be an orange diamond shaped sign to your right with 2 wavy arrows on it. Touchdown is in the center of this sign. Go with the flow of the traffic. You should see the blue and white truck on your right. Take a right and then you should be behind a yellow van. On the left there are different colored blocks on their wall. Go straight until you hit the intersection and take a right. You should see the blue bikes. On your left on the sidewalk is a red fire hydrant. Your touchdown will be on top of that.  Follow the flow of traffic and then turn left at the intersection. Go forward until you see a bakery on your left with a red awning and yellow text. Turn left at this intersection. Go forward until you see a white and black bus parked in front of a convenience store with an orange, red, and green logo. The touchdown is on the center of the bus's front wheel.  Move with the flow of traffic into the close intersection, and take a right. With the grass to your left, continue until the first 3-way intersection. Take a right. Now pass the brown wall on your right with graffiti, then the wall on your left with large painted faces. At the intersection, turn left. Move ahead until you are just past the green wall on the left. Face left and there is a green mailbox. Touchdown is on top of the mailbox. Stand so you see a blue dumpster in front of boarded up windows ahead on your left. Turn around walk in the opposite direction, away from the intersection. You should pass some orange and white construction panels on your right. Go right at the first intersection. This is a very narrow street with more construction panels on your right. Notice a steep staircase with red metal railings ahead to your right. Past those, find a basketball court also on your right. Before passing by the court, turn and look on the left side of the street. You will see a brick building with jail bars on the windows. To the left of that building, see a single green door. Touchdown is sitting right in the middle of the doorway.  Turn so there is a brick wall to your right and you're headed with traffic. Walk down to the second intersection.

Turn left so you're headed toward an overpass. Before you reach it, turn right so that you're headed parallel to the bridge. Walk down this street. Early on you'll see a chance to double back on yourself - ignore it and keep going.

When you reach a 4 way intersection with fenced in handball courts on the corner, turn right. The courts will be on your left. Keep going, with an eye on your left. There will be two benches on the outside of the fence. After this there will be a white sign on a green pole with a bicycle locked to it. Touchdown is on the bike seat. Turn to face toward the nearest intersection, then walk into it and turn right. There will be a table with a red cloth on your right. Now go to the end of the block, and take another right, toward the parasols. Now go forward, past the group of US flags on the right, but before the lone flag afterwards. There will be a window with green lines on it to your left, with a wedge shaped sign on the ground in front of it. Touchdown is under the sign. Position yourself moving with the flow of traffic. You'll see a long green awning above a door on the right and fire escape ladders on your left. Travel straight down this road until you get to an intersection. Step into the middle of the intersection and look at the corner on your right. There is a blue mailbox next to a yellow newspaper stand. Touchdown is sitting right on top of that blue mailbox.  Start by positioning yourself in such a way that you have a store with a green awning to your left and then go forward. Keep walking till you reach an intersection and then turn left. Walk till you reach another intersection and again turn left. Pass a building with a flag with a flower like pattern to your right and keep going forward until you reach an intersection. Stop in the middle of the intersection. Touchdown is sitting on top of the black trash can in front of you, slightly to your left. Orient yourself so you are going down the small one way street with the building with the blue skyline in the windows on your right.    At the end of the very short block, turn left.  Go to the end of the block and turn left.  Go to the end of this short block and turn left again, going down the wrong side of the road.  Stop when you get to the end of the block.  you should basically be right where you started, Go through the intersection and stop at the opposite corner, where the corner store has their metal doors down over their windows.  On this corner is a newspaper box and a  trash can with a white liner garbage bag.  Touchdown bear is on top of this garbage can.   You will be in the middle of an intersection. Turn in the direction and go straight where a tan and black building with a diamond is on the right. On the left is a brick upper and brown lower building with a fire hydrant out front. You will be on a cobblestone street. You will pass a store on the left with blue on it. On the right before you get to the scaffolding. Stop and you will see on the left a blue flag hanging up above a store. Touchdown is on the end of the pole.  Turn so that you are facing the same direction of traffic and you are facing the closest intersection. Move forward into the intersection and turn right.
Travel straight to the next traffic light and turn right again onto the one way street and then proceed forward, you will pass some orange traffic cones on the sidewalk to your left when you are about halfway there, continue forward.
As you continue you will come across five trucks backed into loading docks on the left side of the street.
Stop and turn left when you are parallel with the yellow truck to the left of the truck on the ground is a traffic cone, Touchdown is sitting atop that traffic cone.
 Turn, so that you are facing a green glass building at the end of a narrow street. Proceed to the intersection and turn right. You will be facing against oncoming traffic. Proceed to the intersection and turn right again. You can see a tall red building ahead on the left side. Proceed to the next intersection and turn right. You are now facing towards where you started! You can see large storage containers on the right side. Move towards the next intersection and stop just before the crosswalk. Touchdown is on the stop sign on the left sitting on the arrow sign. You're beginning right at an intersection. Position yourself so you're moving with the flow of traffic. Step into the intersection and turn left. After you turn, you will see a white building with a black awning on your left and a light brown brick building with green diamond-shaped cutouts above windows on your right. 

When you pass scaffolding and the entrance to a parking garage on your left then you're getting close to the next intersection. Just before you get to that intersection, you'll see a brown building with a red door on your left. Touchdown is waiting for you on the door handle of the red door.  With the red business to your right, enter this intersection and turn left.  At the next intersection, turn left again.  The building to your right will have columns.  Go to the next intersection and turn left one more time.  Go all the way to the next intersection and enter it.  Touchdown will be on the trashcan on your left on the same corner an the green awning. Go WITH flow TO THE LIGHT and go RIGHT.  Continue through the next light. STOP before the crosswalk at the next one. ROTATE RIGHT. 
FIND Touchdown on white cap of hydrant between two pipes painted with green, yellow and red stripes. Follow the flow of traffic, with the phone booths and bus sign to your right. Continue going straight after the first intersection and make a right when you see the brown building with an orange and white brand name logo. There should now be plants on your left, follow them down the block. At the end of the block, there will be a creme colored building with black steps, make a right at that intersection. There will be a red building with black awnings on the corner to your right. Follow the traffic, make your last right, now there will be scaffolding on your right and a black store front on your left. Touchdown will be on the center of the top black and white arrow sign above the crosswalk signs on your left. Turn so the barrier in the middle is on your left.  Follow traffic through the intersection ahead then through the next and you will see an open area on your right.  Keep going, watching on your left for your first opportunity to turn left. There is a light blue awning on your left now. Go down this road and stop when you reach a row of blue bikes on your left.  Look to the right and there is a red circular sign sticking out from the building from a black iron hanger.  Touchdown is in the middle of that dark red sign with white lettering. Go with the flow of traffic.  There will be scaffolding on your left.  Go to the intersection and turn right.  There will be a building on your right where the first two stories are mostly glass.  Go straight through two intersections and slow down.  There will be a couple orange and white striped barricades on your left as you approach the next intersection.  Stop when these are immediately in front of you.  Turn 45 degrees to your left.  There are 3 drab green mailboxes on the sidewalk.  Touchdown is on top of the middle one.   Move forward so that you will exit the intersection by passing through 2 corners: The corner on your left has a black store sign with white and lime green letters, and dark blue awnings. The corner on your right has a brick building with white/blue/green window signs. 

Move straight between those corners and continue to the next intersection. When you reach it, turn right. Move forward a bit, and at the beginning of the row of bikes is an orange diamond sign. Touchdown is on the sign. Orient yourself so you are moving against the flow of traffic.
The yellow/gold brick looking wall will be on your left behind glass.
Head forward until you're at the end of the grass area on the right and just in front of the covered area ahead.
Just ahead is a horizontal yellow bar hanging from the building where Touchdown is sitting. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the black chain-link fence on your left and for green mailboxes ahead on your right. Continue forward to the next intersection and take a left. You should see a store with a green awning on your right and a coffee shop next to that. Move forward to the next intersection and go straight. You will see a stone building on your right with arched windows. Continue to the next intersection and take a left. You should see some orange and white  striped construction barriers on your right and a food cart on the sidewalk to the left. Move forward and you will see some trees on the right side walk go past the first tree and continue moving forward until you are just past the second tree. Stop and turn to your right and you will see a light pole in front of you. Touchdown is sitting at the base of the light pole. Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic, and head to the nearest intersection.  Stay straight through the first part, then turn left at the second.  Once you turn left, stop.  There is a person with a yellow vest, and a trash can near by.  The bear is in that trashcan.   Easy straight shot to your destination. 

Head toward the bridge over the river. You're in the lane you need to be in to just go with traffic. As you approach the bridge there will be brick like almost castle looking structures to the right. Go beyond those to where the cables begin and go further.

Before you get to the river, turn to your right. You will see a road below and it will be to your left a bit. You should be almost facing a building with a big black sign on it's side facing you. Touchdown is in the upper right corner of that sign. Orient yourself so the park is on your left and there is a construction barrier on your right. Continue straight through a three-way intersection. As you continue straight and can see the intersection up ahead, stop and look to the right. There will be a purple flag hanging from one of the townhomes on the right. The townhome to the left of the flag will have a green door. Touchdown is on the green door handle.  Face the street directly in front of you.  The traffic will be going perpendicular to the way you are facing.  Step to your right so that you have the opportunity to go into this street/intersection.  As you move forward into the street, look for the opportunity to turn left.  Doing do will put a yellow/orangish building on your right and a bus stop on your left.  Head down this street.  Pass straight through one intersection; turn left at the second.  Stop immediately after you exit the intersection and cross over the crosswalk.  Turn 45 degrees to your right.  On the  corner of the store on the corner is a circular logo done in orange with a man in white in that circle.  Touchdown is sitting in the middle of this circle.   Turn so the sign with a blue logo is on your left. At the light take a left. Go straight passing right through the first intersection you come to. At the next light take a left. Go straight about a block. Stop when you just get to the light stone building with white grates over the windows. The upper pat of the building is red brick. Touchdown is on the second window you come to in the middle.  With the scaffolding to your left, go with the flow of traffic.  At the first intersection, turn left.  You'll have bright signs on both sides. Go straight at the next intersection.  At the next intersection, turn right.  There will some food vendors on your left.  A good ways down the street, you'll see on your right side a tall red fence after what looks like a theater.  Touchdown is in on the round design on the sign of the theater just after the theater's name.  Turn so the scaffolding is on your left and go to the next corner and turn left. 

Still with traffic flow, go through the first intersection and to the next. When you have the option to turn, look to your right and there is a blue mailbox that Touchdown is sitting on top of.  Turn so the street vendors are on your right. At the light ahead take a left. Pass through the next light where there are several american flags on the building to your right. At the next light that is close by take a left. You will see a red delivery truck parked on the right side of the street. Go straight. Stop when you are at the end of the construction barrier lining the street to your left. There are two octagon red signs ahead. Touchdown is in the middle point of the sign on the right side of the street.  Face the nearest intersection and do forward, turning left at the intersection. You will pass a large blue truck on the left. Keep going and then you will see an orange ladder to your right. The touchdown is on the cone at the base of the ladder. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Go forward until the first intersection and turn right. At the next intersection, go right again. Soon before the next intersection, on your left is an entrance to a garage. Touchdown is on the lighter red sign standing on the right of the entrance. turn to move with traffic, there will be an american flag on your left, at the 1st intersection take a right, there are two mailboxes and phone booths on the left. At the next intersection take a right, you will be going down a one way street, you will pass a building with glass balconies. There is a building with yellow awnings on the left, the following building has potted shrubs and green awning, the bear is on the numbers on the awning Orient yourself in the direction of the yellow cars. Go straight until reaching the intersection, and take a left. Go straight and past the angled intersection and past the park. Take a ll at the intersection around the park. Go straight until past the crostraightwalk. Touchdown is sitting on a bike seat to the right. Turn and walk through the underground tunnel under the glass building. Exit out the opposite end and walk straight ahead.  Turn right at the end of the drive, following the outside wall of the glass building on your right. Walk ahead toward the water. Before crossing the street ahead of you, find the two double doors with black circles on them to your right. Turning to face the doors, you should see 2 big white paint splotches on the ground below the doors on the left.  Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the paint splotch on the right. Follow the flow of traffic and turn right at the first intersection. You will go straight through two intersections and turn right at the third. There is an orange and green newspaper box on your left. The touchdown is on the center of the green part.  Turn so there is a red brick building with a metal driveway door on your left. Go straight down this street. When you come to the first traffic light, make a right turn. You will see a traffic light up ahead. Go through this traffic light.  After you go through the light, there will be a brick building with a short black metal fence on your right. Touchdown is sitting at the very end of that fence, in front of two silver doors.  Align yourself so that the blue bins are on your left, and the yellow diamond sign is ahead on your left.

Head up to the intersection, and make a right. you should pass some blue scaffolding on your way to the next intersection to the left. Make another right at the intersection.

Go down the road until you see bump written on the road, and stop on top of it. To your right you should see a row of bins under some lettered graffiti. Touchdown is sitting on the left most bin. Turn so that you're walking in the same direction that the cars are driving. Go straight until you get out the back of the tunnel. Then continue going straight past the traffic lights until you get to the white barriers in front of the next tunnel. At the left barrier, there are 2 yellow bins at the base. Touchdown is sitting on the black lid of one of the yellow bins. Face the light and go left. Go left again the end of the block.  Stop when you have scaffolding on your left and you've just gone past the first light-grey awning on your right.  Turn to your right.

Look down at the pavement in front of you.  There should be a manhole cover directly between two square white planters with bushes in them. Touchdown is in the center circle of the manhole cover. Going with the flow of traffic, go to the first intersection and take a right  The next intersection is a t-intersection, you're going to take a right there. You'll take a right at the next intersection.  There should be some graffiti on the left hand side, go straight. When you get to the next intersection go into it.  On the right hand side of the block ahead, there are some trash bags on the ground.  Touchdown is hiding on those bags. Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. Move forward until you reach an intersection. Take a left.

2. When you reorient yourself, there should be a green building with a green awning to your right and a food cart to your left. Move down this road until you reach another intersection. Take a left again.

3. When you reorient yourself, there should be four yellow traffic cones around a crossing signal to your right. You're quite close to your destination.

4. On the left side of the road, you should see a large, white semi-trailer truck behind a white van. Stop when the tractor portion of the truck is to your immediate left. There are steps leading up to the passenger's door of the tractor. Touchdown is sitting in the very center of the top step.

Good luck! :) Face the direction so the yellow and white construction barriers are on your right and you are on the road with a median in the middle. Go straight. You should be heading down the road with the traffic that is on your side and the median is on the left of you. You will go straight through a small 3 way intersection that has no street light. When you get to a 4 way intersection with a street light make a right turn. Once you are turned there is a white umbrella on the left side and a lot of trees behind a small fence on the right side. Go straight one block. At the first intersection turn right. Stop as soon as you have turned. There should be kind of a triangle area of fenced in greenery to your left and a fenced in area with a lot of greenery and possibly a garden to the right side. There is a black trashcan on the right side and Touchdown is on top of it. Stand  so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Go forward to the next intersection, and turn left. You need to pass straight through 3 intersections. At the 4th, turn left. Move to the next intersection and stand in the center of it. Face right, and there is an orange and white cylinder. Touchdown is on top of it. Head down the street in the direction where there are yellow awnings to your left. At the first intersection turn left. This is a very long city block and you go past a couple construction areas and scaffolding on the left. Once you get to the next  intersection you will see a walk way area that has part of the concrete on the side shaped like a half moon with two short poles and one long darker pole. Touchdown is at the base of the longer pole Enter the intersection you are standing at and go left. There should be a big brick building ahead on your right with a huge white advertisement on it. Buildings ahead of you are tall and full of glass. At an upcoming opportunity to turn left at a 3 way intersection, do so. This is a narrow one way street, and you are going the wrong way. Past the parking lot on your right, turn around and go back. You are now going the same way as traffic. At the upcoming intersection, go left.  Keep straight, don't turn into any parking areas on your right. Keep straight at the next 3 way intersection again. You should see a long, short, glass building to your right, and slum type buildings covered in ads to your left. Notice the large square  lit up sign just ahead on your right. Stop just before getting to it and look to your left. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant in front of the slum type buildings.  Face in the same direction as all the parked cars.  Go to the first intersection and turn right; there will be a store with green signs on the corner.  Go forwards and at the second junction turn left.  There will be a restaurant with red signs on the corner as you turn.  Keep a eye out on the right for a store with an awning with an eye on it followed by a store with an orange sign.  Touchdown is on the eye on the awning. Follow the flow of traffic and then turn right at the first intersection. Go forward and then turn right at the next intersection. Stop at the next intersection and look to your left. You will see a tax building with a green square logo. The touchdown is on the logo on the awning.  Follow traffic to the light, with the subway entrance on your right and the green scaffolding to your left ahead. Go right at the light, and thru the next one, stopping at the crosswalk just at the other side.  Ahead and left is a blue awning.  To your right are two mailbox and two newspaper kiosks.  Touchdown is atop the red square metal newspaper kiosk. Follow traffic and go left at the intersection and left again at the next one.  Go to the end of the block and enter the intersection and go left just enough you're between the curb corners.

Touchdown is on the grey top of the white cap of the black fire hydrant between the two silver pipes on your left. Face the intersection.  Step into it and turn right (you may need to mess around inside the intersection to get it).

At the next intersection you should see a blue fire escape on the building ahead.  Turn right here.

You should see lots of trees here on both sides.  Go forward.

Stop when you can see the blue motor bike on the right.  Touchdown is on this bike seat. Orient yourself so that the bright red store with gold letters is to your left, and the  brick building is to your right. Move forward straight through a 3-way intersection and then at an opportunity to veer left, take the left veering direction. Then continue straight through a complicated intersection; you will pass straight through 2 4-way and 2 3-way opportunities to turn. Just after that, to your right are 3 hanging flags. Touchdown is in the center of the first (white) flag. Face the same direction the cars are going, with the traffic lights in front of you, and go forward. When you reach the intersection with the big red letters on the building ahead to the right, make a right, and it will now be on your left. Continue going forward, passing the silver hand on your right and stop at the intersection, with the white painted lines on the street in front of you. On your right, there is a silver pole with a green street sign, in front of the glass storefront with the red and blue sign, Touchdown is on the green sign. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic, the green/blue scaffolding on your left and the overpass ahead.

Go straight, pass some offlets and the silver fencing on the left.

You'll arrive at an intersection that has a building ahead on the left with some exterior structures jutting out.  Turn right here.

Go forward a couple steps until you're next to a store with a black sign and white lettering with a red awning, which is right next to a green storefront.

In the upper right hand corner of the black sign there's a red square with white writing in it.  Touchdown is in the middle of the red square. Position yourself to go with traffic flow. Go down past orange cones in the street on your right, past a dumpster with a blue tarp on the right, all the way to the intersection and turn right. 
Go to the next intersection and turn right again.
Go down to the building with the green canopy on the left. There is an evergreen on each side on the sidewalk. As you face the plants, Touchdown is on top of the plant on the left.
 Go with traffic. Turn left at the first intersection.  Turn left at the next intersection and complete the U turn. You will be facing a building with an American flag on the top of it. Keep straight at the next intersection, there will be no option to turn. Look right and stop next to the parked black SUV that is in front of a row of planters. Touchdown is sitting on the Gas cover of the SUV. Align yourself with the flow of traffic. Go straight through this intersection and on to the next, where you'll take a left. Go towards the next intersection on this road, and stop just before, at the store with 24 hours. Touchdown is on the 4. Going with the flow of traffic, you should be on a one way street.  Continue straight.  You'll pass a construction area and get up to a section where the road forks.  Take the fork to the left, you will have a median with plants in it on your right.   At the next intersection there will be blue scaffolding on your left with rainbow banners at the top.  Turn left here. Stay to the left at the fork in the road. When you get to the end of the iron fencing around the garden to your right, stop.  Look for the sign on the fence.  Touchdown is on the leaf on that sign. Move with the flow of traffic, passing the short black gated area to your right. At the first intersection you need to make a right turn. Now move ahead on this right portion of the main road. You should pass a bus stop on your left, then there is an opportunity to turn left. Do so, and join the main road. Soon at the next light, turn right.  Soon you will pass between two small yellow portions of the road, next to driveways in the sidewalk. Just past these, stop. There is a green awning ahead to your right. Touchdown is in the center of that awning. Turn so you are facing traffic. There is an overpass in front of you. There is a building behind it that is yellow on top with red on the bottom. Go down the street and take a right in front of the aforementioned building. Head down this street until you come to a mural along a short wall. Touch down is in the middle of the yellow square all the way on the right on this mural.  Begin moving with the flow of traffic. A business with a dark red awning will be on your left. Turn right at the first intersection. 

At the next intersection you get to, turn right again. You'll quickly come to another intersection. Go straight through it. Shortly after, you'll see three flags on your right. Touchdown is on the blue part of the American flag where the stars are.  Go in the same direction as traffic, keeping the water to your left. Stay on this road, don't get off at the exit. You will see a bridge ahead, and start to go uphill as you get closer. As you begin to go higher, notice the two rounded brick buildings to your right.  Go past them both. Next find the small square sign on the right of the road.  It is blue with a smaller white square in the middle. Go past it and start to cross over the upcoming street below you. You will be on a bridge. When you are almost over the first lane of traffic below to your right, stop and look down at the street below.  There is a white painted bike sign on the middle of the street. Touchdown is in the middle of the front wheel.  Move in the direction of traffic. Turn left at the intersection. Go straight until the next intersection, then turn left. Stop when the food cart is just ahead of you to the left. To your right you will see a bright yellow sign. Touchdown is on top of the sign. Go with the flow of the traffic. Follow the grey van to the next intersection. Take a right. You should see a silver car to your left, yellow cab on your right, and white van just to the left of you. Go right through the first intersection and go to the next one. You are going to be right on the sidewalk lines. There's a guy on the right waiting to cross with a jacket in his hand and a suitcase athis side. Touchdown is his hand holding the jacket.  Follow the direction of traffic. go to the intersection. Turn right. 
Go pass two intersections, stop at the third one. You should see green awnings to your right side and blue awning to your left. Turn right at this intersection. 
Now green awning is on your left and white sign with blue/red color is on your right with scaffolding. Go to the end of the white /blue/red sign. You will see an opening with an orange cone. The touchdown is on top of the cone.  turn to go with traffic down the one way street and head to the next intersection, at the intersection turn left, the store on the right has green and white striped awnings. At the next intersection turn left, there is a fenced in open area on the right with a row of blue bikes on the sidewalk.  after the last bike, there is a white sign on the black iron fence, the bear is on that sign Go against traffic into the intersection, then turn left.  Travel through one intersection.  On the right there is an overhang with no cover, only gold poles.  Inside the window between the poles you can see a light hanging down.  The bear is on it. Turn so the yellow sign with red lettering is on the right side of the street. Go straight through the intersection and pass this business. Go to the next light. Take a right. There will be a short red brick fence on your left. Go straight and at the next light go right. Go down the street and stop just before the intersection. Touchdown is sitting in the oval on the red store sign on your right.  Begin by orienting yourself to go in the direction of the traffic. Begin walking straight down the road. You'll see a building with a blue flag and American flag hanging outside. Turn right at the intersection. You'll pass some orange construction barriers on the left. Continue walking straight and you'll see a building on the right with a brown flag hanging on the outside with a red flag directly above it. At the intersection, turn right. Walk straight ahead. You'll pass several potted trees on the left. Continue through the intersection and past the sets of dark gray stairs on your right. You'll find touchdown in front of the beige set of doors on the right next to the pillar. If you are in the correct position you will see a building with blue awnings to your left. To your right will be a great building followed by a brick building with green awnings. Please head straight. You will notice on your left there will be orange and white construction barriers. When you reach the first intersection please turn left.
Please continue straight and pass through the first four intersections. You will notice on your left there is a white building with blue signs in the windows. You will also notice there is a bus bench. Touchdown is sitting in front of the bus bench in the center. He is on the ground. You are going to walk in a square, but be a sport and don't cheat.  

Go with traffic to the light and left.  Make a left at each of the next two lights after that and a left at the two stop signs. Congratulations! You've reached the street you started on.

Stop before passing the pumpkin on the sidewalk to your right. Rotate right. There's a single black planter with a plant on the step before the threshold at the top of the steps.  Touchdown is on the plant. Align yourself with the flow of traffic. Go straight and turn left-ish then left. next intersection, turn left again. Go down about halfway before the next intersection until you come across a green truck with a yellow logo, which is in front of a grand building with three flags and steps to the entrance. Touchdown is in the O of the yellow logo Start by facing the large glass building.  You should be in a drop off area when you go towards it.  Go forward towards the covered drive.
Just when you get inside, look right and you should see a blue mat by a glass pane.  Touchdown is on that blue mat in the middle. Orient yourself in which there is a fire hydrant on your right. Follow the road passing the fire hydrant, various blue and yellow gates and parked cars till you arrive at an intersection. Once at the intersection, make a right turn. After you make a right turn, pass the building with advertisement or graffiti on your right and play ground on your left. Skip the intersection and pass the basketball court on your right, blue awning on your right and some scaffolding. Once you pass the scaffolding you should arrive at an intersection up ahead. Make a right turn at the intersection, Once you made a right turn, pass the bikes parked on the curb on your right, benches on your left, orange and white barricades on your right and an orange awning on your left. Once you pass the orange awning on your left, you should come near some black awnings to your left but don't go pass them. To your right is two bikes parked on a pole. The touchdown is sitting on the seat of the bike closest to the intersection. From your starting point, turn around and face the intersection.  Directly ahead of you, you should see a shopfront with a bright red stripe above its windows.  Walk a very short distance into the middle of the intersection, and then turn to your right.  

That building with the red stripe should be on your left as you proceed down this wide, one-way street.  

From here it is just an easy, straight walk.  Just go forward until you are standing in the middle of a four-way intersection.  Instead of choosing a direction at this point, though, just stop and look around.  Just ahead of you and on your right, there should be a white sign on a pole, with black lettering and a small black arrow.  Touchdown is sitting right on top of this sign. Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street.  Go forward to the intersection just ahead, and turn left.  You'll have a building with tiny square windows in a white wall on your right.  Go to the next intersection, and turn left again.  There will be a hot dog and pretzel cart on your left.  
Go to the end of the block, and at the intersection make yet another left.   You'll have a building on your right that has walls that look silver with a white pattern of ovals.  Go one short block and make another left.  You'll have a shop with black awnings over all the windows on your right.  Watch on the left sidewalk, you'll shortly come to a restaurant that has a chalkboard outside the door on the sidewalk.  Stop when you're just about even with the chalkboard (slightly past it).  The bear is on top of the chalkboard. turn to go with traffic, there is scaffolding on the left. Move forward until you come to the next intersection, make a left. The store on your left has bicycles in the window. Continue here until the next intersection and take a left, the building on your left has black awnings with rainbow banners along the bottom, just ahead on your left is a building that has two black swore planters outside the door on the left side. The bear is on the right planter Turn around and align yourself so the shuttered doors are on your right, and you're with the flow of traffic in your lane. Head to the intersection, and take a right. Head past the junk and bins on the right side, you'll stop just before the intersection, and you should see a turned over bike tied to the pole, left of the ad with two skeletons. Touchdown is sitting on the seat. Stand facing the corner that has the white store sign with the Chinese letters. Move forward, going down the street with the white store sign and Chinese writing  on your right. When you reach the first intersection, there will be three traffic cones on the street in front of a store with a red and yellow awning. Make a right and go down that street, making sure that the store with a red/yellow awning is now on your left. Once you get to the first traffic light,make a right and there will now be a green awning on your left. Continue down the street and make your last right at the intersection. There should now be a building under construction in front of you. Move forward and stop before your reach the store with the orange awning on your right. Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant in front of that store. Align yourself so that the food truck is on your left. Head up to the intersection and make a right. You'll make another right shortly after. You'll head a fair ways to the next intersection and stop.

Turn around when you get inside the intersection, and on the left side you should see two red posts with a hydrant in between. Touchdown is on the tip of the hydrant. Orient yourself so the playground is on your right.  Walk to the intersection in front of you and turn right.  Go down this road, passing the apartment building with large balconies on your left, until you reach the next intersection.  Turn right again, and walk down this long block.  You'll pass a basketball court on your right that's attached to a school.  Keep going to the intersection.  At the intersection turn right, you should be facing the same direction as the traffic with apartment buildings on your right and stores on your left.  Start walking down this road, stopping right before you enter the next intersection.  Look ahead to your right, there should be a fire hydrant that has been spray painted blue between two brown looking poles to the right of the street light pole.  Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant.    Stand so that you are walking with the flow of traffic. Move forward (away from that starting intersection), and at the next intersection turn right. Continue for awhile, passing a cement truck, a brown truck on your right, and a store with a blue awning on your right. You will come to a long red store awning on your right. Touchdown is in the very center bottom of the red awning. Face the closest traffic lights, with the dumpster in front of you on your left, and make a right at the light. You will have a bus lane on your left, follow it to the intersection and make your last right, where you see big, blue signs on the store window to your right. Pass these store window signs, following the traffic, passing scaffolding and stopping after passing the orange awning on your right. There will be a red store sign after the orange awning. Touchdown will be on the yellow pedestrian sign in front of the red store sign. Align yourself with the subway entrance behind you, you should have two olive post boxes to your left. Head up to the intersection and make a left.

You'll pass a few red trucks on your left on the way. Make a left at the next intersection. There should be scaffolding all the way down the street here. Ignore the first intersection, and move to the second.

Once you're in the intersection, make a left. On your right side, you should see a blue post box next to two black garbage bins. Touchdown is sitting on top of the blue box under the scaffolding. Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Go forward to the intersection, and turn left. Go to the next intersection and go left. Move forward a bit and there will be a flag on your right that is half red and half black. Touchdown is in the center of the flag. With a domed building to your left, go straight. Go straight through the three-way intersection, then straight through the intersection that has a small lawn to the left. Take a left at the intersection with blue scaffolding to the left. Go straight; there should be a park to your left. On the right there is a building with an upward slanting awning that has two brick pillars. There is also a black entrance with two torch lights above it. Touchdown is on the right light. Orient yourself so that you will leave the intersection with 2 red and one orange newspaper boxes on your right, and with a yellow newspaper box on your left. Continue in this direction, and go straight through the first intersection that you reach. Soon after that at the next intersection, turn left. 
Now you should have a brick building on your right, and a building with a gray first floor on your left. Move ahead until, as you start getting close to the next stoplight, on your left is a black awning with white letters. Touchdown is in the middle of the awning. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the black fence behind the row of cars on your right. Move forward to the nearby three-way intersection and take a left. You will see a chain link fence with barbed wire on your left and a standard chain link fence on your right. Move forward going under the underpass and stop when you are in the middle of the nearby intersection. Turn to your left and you will see a light pole at the corner of the intersection. Touchdown is sitting at the base of the light pole. Going with the flow of traffic, you'll go straight through this first intersection. Take a right turn at the next intersection. The business on your right is painted blue.  Go straight through the next intersection. At the next intersection, turn right.  There will be scaffolding on your right.  Go down this block until you see a yellow flag on your right.  Touchdown is in the center of this yellow flag. Align yourself to the parked cars in the lot of traffic cones, with the scaffolding on your left.
Head down the lot and make a left at the intersection, then another left at the next intersection.

You'll make a final left at the next intersection. Stop right before you hit the stairs of the big stone building on your right that takes up the whole block. You should see a white parking sign with a star on it, touchdown is on the star.
 Turn so that you're going with the flow of traffic and have the red wall on your right. Walk forward into that street and continue to the next intersection. Turn left at that intersection and go straight until the next intersection. Turn left again and stop in front of the place on your left with very colorful wall. At the bottom of the wall will be a half circle sun. Touchdown is sitting on the sidewalk right next to the center of the circle. Position yourself so you are going against the flow of traffic. White delivery vehicles will be off to your right. Turn left at the first intersection you get to. A bright building with blue awnings will be on your right side now. Turn left again at the next light. Immediately on your left side, you will see a tree in a bed of yellow flowers. Touchdown is sitting in the flowers at the bottom of the tree trunk.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Turn right at the first intersection.  You should see scaffolding ahead on the left with a national flag beyond it.
Keep going and you should see blue scaffolding ahead on the right.
Keep going and you'll see some green scaffolding with an orange ladder against it further ahead, followed by green scaffolding on the left.
Just past that scaffolding and the long row of blue bikes on the left, you will want to turn right at the intersection.
Just past the clock you will want to stop and turn around.  Touchdown is hiding on this side of the clock face.
 Orient yourself with the one way traffic. You're surrounded by painted school buses. Take the first available left and then another immediate left so that you are traveling against the flow of traffic with a row of trees immediately to your right. Continue through one intersection with a traffic light, though you don't have the option to turn here, and take a left at the second. Continue to the far right until you have made a 180 degree turn so you are on the side/loading street closest to the buildings with the buildings on your right. Pass the first painted bus on the right and immediately before the white truck on the right, there is a security guard standing next to a small booth. Touchdown is on his head. Orient yourself so that the red shop is on your left and turn left when you can. Continue forward and turn left at the next intersection. Go forward and turn left at the next intersection. You will see a black motorcycle parked behind a red car on your right. The touchdown is in the middle of car's front wheel.  Head the same way that traffic is going. When you get into that intersection make a left turn. After you turn there is a line of blue bikes on the left side. Go straight one block. Turn left again. You will be going down a narrow one way street the same direction as traffic. There is a food cart with a yellow and red umbrella on the left side. Go straight. Keep going straight at the first intersection you come to. There is a store with paper covering the windows on the left side. You won't go all the way down this road. When you see open garage doors on your right side you are almost there. Come to a stop just past those doors. Look on the left side of the road there is a red overhang. There is a sign board on the sidewalk in front of the window under that overhang. Touchdown is on top of that.  Turn so you'll be going with the flow of traffic.  Go to the intersection and turn left.  Then at the next intersection you come to, turn left again. You'll pass two green awnings over the sidewalk on your left.  Then there's a big mail truck on your left (double-parked).  When you're just past the mail truck, note that there is a motorcycle parked on the left side of the road.  The bear is riding the motorcycle. Follow traffic down the one-way street with the white building on the left corner and redbrick building with a black fence in front of it on the right. Take a right at the light and go right again at the next one.
You'll see green awnings on right, and then a building that's grey with a noticeable red round fire alarm on your left. Go just a pinch further, and there'll be a long wooden planter with grass in it on your left. Stop at the start of that, and rotate slightly right and look downward.

There's an all grey hydrant, and Touchdown bears down atop it.

 Orient yourself so that you follow the flow of traffic. Go straight and pass the first two intersections, turning right on the 3rd intersection. The touchdown is the white dog on the blue vet awning.  Turn so the bike racks are on your right and the fire hydrant is to your left and proceed forward, through the first quasi-intersection with lights, until you reach the next set of lights. Continue straight through that intersection, as well.

There should now be a park to your right and an overpass ahead of you. Go towards it, through yet another intersection (you've gone straight this whole time) until you're standing with scaffolding to your right and a bus stop shelter directly to your left.

Touchdown is sitting on the bench in the bus stop shelter, between the two metal dividers on it. Align yourself with the flowing of traffic  Take the immediate right at the intersection. Follow this road down to the next intersection, and make a right. Two steps from here, you should see a green sign above an open backed van. Touchdown is sitting on the sign. Hello, please orient yourself facing the flow of traffic. You should see a bright green taxi ahead of you so you know it's the right way. Go Straight down this road 20 steps forward. You will be following this bright green taxi as you do this. Now you are in the middle of an intersection. Turn Right here. Continue down this road for about 8 steps forward. You will be in the middle of another intersection. Turn Right. Go Straight down this road for 11 steps forward. You will see a dark brown van with the back open and a lot of boxes inside. You will see two white vans on your left with a bicycle in the middle on the sidewalk. This is where you want to be. Look to your right. There is a restaurant with red umbrellas. There is a black sign in front of it with colorful letters in pink and green on the sidewalk. Click in the middle of this sign to find Touchdown Bear. Good luck! Orient yourself with traffic and proceed. Turn left at the first intersection. Go straight at the next intersection. Stop when you are aligned with the third of four trees lit with blue lights on the right side of the street. Touchdown is in the cage around the base of this tree. Face the traffic light, with the park on your right, and make a left when you reach the corner o the red building after you pass the traffic light. Make a left at the first traffic light, going toward the brown building with the red letters, but take a quick left like if you're making a u-turn so that the brown building with red letters is now behind you. Go down the street and stop before the traffic light. Look to your right and you will see the yellow crosswalk sign hanging on the pole. Touchdown is above the yellow crosswalk sign. Orient yourself so that the red brick building with lots of black fire escapes is ahead of you to the right and there's a empty lot with overgrown trees and a fence immediately to your right.  Go to the first intersection and turn left.  There will be some white barricades to your right as you head down this street.   Go to the intersection.  This is a divided street; cross over the first half of the street.  Stop when you reach the middle of the second half.  Straight ahead of you, in front of a white building, is a tree.  The biggest two branches make a V shape.  Touchdown is sitting in this V. Turn so you going with traffic. At the intersection take a left. There will be a store with a blue sign on your right. Go straight. At the light take a left.Make sure you are on the right side of the street. You will see a bridge in the distance straight ahead. Stop beside the black and white bus parked on the right side of the road. There is a yellow sign ahead with two shadowed out people on it. Touchdown is in the middle point of that yellow sign.  Turn so you are heading with the flow of traffic.  Take the first right, then take the next right.  Pass the parking area on your right, and barely pass the covered motorcycle (Black/Orange).  Look across the street there is a small red flower in the planter.  The bear is on it. Go down the road so the park is on your left and brick buildings on your right. 

Just keep following this road, going right around the curve. It's quite a ways down but go to the stop signs. This is a little tricky, but go left, then turn to face right so you can get just past the intersection you just came off from. You will see a car facing you parked on the left with its door open. Touchdown is sitting on the mirror of that open door of the white car on the left. You begin in the intersection, so orientate yourself so the rainbow umbrella is to your right and blue awning store is to your left. 
Go straight down this street through the first intersection. 
Just as you get into the next intersection, look to your right to see a green box in front of a store with gold awning with red letters. Touchdown is on top of that green box on that light pole.  Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. Some scaffolding and a line of small orange and gray traffic poles should be on your right. Take a left at the intersection.

2. When you reorient yourself, you should be in the middle of the divided street, facing another intersection. Move into this intersection, and take another left.

3. Reorient yourself, and the scaffolding on the opposite side of the street that was originally on your right should now be on your left. At the next intersection, take another left.

4. Upon reorienting yourself, the aforementioned scaffolding should still be on your left and another intersection should be right in front of you. Take a left at this intersection so that you're very close to where you started. Obviously, your destination is right nearby.

5. Stop whenever you're standing in the middle of the crosswalk. If you look to your right, you should see a series of green and gray bollards with two fire hydrants, one red and one black. Touchdown is sitting on the very top of the black hydrant.

Good luck! :) Head to the intersections with the manhole covers in front of you. Make a right at this intersection.

Follow the road down, ignoring two intersections, and make a right at the third intersection. On your left shortly down the road, you should see a bent sign, in front of some glass windowed shops. On your right you will be almost at the end of the scaffolding. Above the bent sign on the left, there will be a camera pointed down. Touchdown is on the camera. This will be the second camera of two. Face the immediate intersection.  Step into it and go right.  You'll be going through a long row of parked cars on both sides of the street.  Go through the first intersection.
Turn right at the next intersection.  You'll be at the right intersection when you see a schoolbus on the right.  Go down the street with the schoolbus.
Ahead on your left is some graffiti, a large half open grey door, a medium grey door on it's right, and a small grey door on it's right.  Above the smaller grey door is a grey overhang.  Touchdown is sitting on the overhang. Align yourself with the flow of traffic. Follow this road down and take the first right.Three steps down you should see a red awning with a red E on it. Touchdown is on the red E turn so you are moving with traffic, At your 1st intersection, make a right. there will be a wall with graffiti on your left. at the next intersection, make another right, this will be a one way street, there is another graffiti wall on your left as you head to the next intersection, at the next intersection take a right, there will be a pile of trash bags on the street to the left, just before the end of the street, there is a fire hydrant to the left, the bear is on the hydrant Put the bridge on your left and m take a right at this very close intersection. Take a left almost immediately and proceed forward to another intersection, where you will take a left. Touchdown is on a red Chinese sign. Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. There should be a parking lot on your right.

2. Move forward until your reach a three-way intersection. Take a right, and you'll be at the entrance of a parking garage. Don't go any further, though.

3. If you're looking at the entrance of the garage, you should see two white and red octagonal signs blocking the way. Touchdown is in the center of the sign on the right.

Good luck! :) Go into the intersection that you are very near. Make a left turn in that intersection. You will be heading the same way as the cars on this narrow one way road. Go straight to the end of the long block. When you get to the intersection go straight through then come to a stop. There will be green awnings on the left side and brown awnings on the right side. There is a black trashcan on the left corner. Touchdown is on the top of that trashcan. Orient yourself with the glass building on your right and head.  Go forward through the covered drive.  Go forward all the way to the wall and turn right when you have to.  Go forward until you start to approach a speed bump and you're next to a white SUV.  Just in front of the SUV is a small two character sign in black with white lettering.  You will find Touchdown hiding on this. Go straight and stop just before the first intersection. The touchdown is on the front wheel on the bike parked on the left.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
When you are almost at the black and yellow sign on the right with an animal face, you'll have the option to go back and left.  Don't.
Turn left at the next intersection.  You'll be moving against traffic with a lot of bright signs on both sides of the street.
Turn left at the next intersection.
Stop when you are right in front of a red umbrella and another umbrella that is yellow and blue.  You should see a green machine on the street with a red object on the trailer.

Touchdown is on that red object on the green machine. turn so the graffiti wall is on your left. Go to the 1st intersection, go straight, head to the second intersection and take a left. There will be a fenced in medium to your left, continue down this road, you will see a row of bikes on your right just before a T in the road, continue straight. you will pass a store front with many faces and a cross on a banner, continue straight. you will pass a store front with many red curtains, just past that store is a sign with a yellow top, and an upside down red triangle, the bear is on that sign Face the direction which places the blue scaffolding to your right and head forward in that direction until your get to the first intersection, then turn right. Continue in that direction for one block and turn right at your first opportunity. Head that way for less than a block (you'll see orange and white blockages in the road you're on) until you see orange plastic barricades to your right and a dirty green wall behind that on the sidewalk. Touchdown is on the top left corner of that green wall. Turn so that a park is on your right and water is on your left.  There will be an exit road veering ahead to the right.  Get over on it as soon as you are able. You should be able to get over right after passing underneath the big green signs overhead.  You should be leaving the main highway, and have a short cement wall on your left, separating you from highway traffic. Go ahead straight. Up ahead, you will be alongside a bridge above you on your left.  There is a purple painted beam on it, with traffic cones and fencing along the road near you. Once you are next to the purple beam, you will see a right hand turn down a one way street. Stop before entering that intersection. There is a curved iron fence on your right. Turn and face the brick building on your right. You should be standing to the left of that curved iron fence, facing a short brick wall with graffiti on it.  Also on that wall, locate a white square with graffiti on it. It looks like a piece of paper attached to the wall. Touchdown is sitting right in the middle of that white "paper". Turn around so that the red lettered lit sign is on your left, and head up the street with the flow of traffic to make the first left at the intersection. You should have scaffolding on your right with a bunch of white and yellow striped barricades under. Once you pass the green wall on your right with barricades in front of it, you're close. Stop in the middle of the green wall that starts on your left after the right wall ends, and you should see a construction barrel behind a barricade, and to the right of a hydrant. Touchdown is on top of the barrel. Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street.  Move forward until you reach an intersection, and turn left.  Go to the next intersection, and turn left again.  Now you're on your target block.  You'll pass a bright yellow garage door with cute paintings on your left.  Then you'll pass a building with an orange flag/banner on your right.  Next you'll pass a shop with a red Chinese lantern hanging outside.  A bit past that you'll come to construction scaffolding on your right.  Count the blue vertical poles on the scaffolding (just the ones closest to the street), and stop when you're near the seventh and eighth poles.  You'll also be even with a set of double doors under the scaffolding.  The bear is in the center of the door on the right.   Face yourself so the black fence around the park is on your left. 

Follow this road and the first intersection you come to, make a right. When you turn there is a brownstone with teal green doors and windows to your left and brown awnings with green & light red lettering to your right. 

Watch the right side.  You will pass a red awning shortly, then some red Asian lettering on a building, then shortly after that is a painting, or maybe it's a banner, that has pandas on it and a rainbow. Touchdown is at the end of the rainbow covering the chick holding the flower on the banner.  Turn so that the American Flag is on your left.  Take two steps to the right. Then continue forward down this road.   Pass through 2 intersections.  Take the 3rd left.  You will be between 2 clothing stores.  Looking left stop when you  see the pictures of models end.  The bear is on the face of the last male model.   Align yourself with the flow of traffic on your side of the street. The glass building should be on your right. Follow the road ignoring the first intersection, and turning right at the second. Take a right at the next intersection down this road. Take 3 steps down, and you should see an ATM machine on the red walls on your right. Touchdown is on the atm machine. Turn with the flow of cars and head to the nearest intersection.  Turn right, then take the next right.  You should see ladders on your left.  Continue into the next intersection, and turn right.  Take a few steps and pass the restaurant with blue chairs (On your right).  Just past it, is a bike that is chained up.  Bear is on the seat. Get turned so your back is to the intersection and you are facing the correct direction on this several lanes road. Go straight to the next intersection. Make a left turn. On the left corner is a building that has pattern of different directions of bricks with some grey squares also. Go straight all the way down this long block. When you reach the intersection make a left. Go straight one block. Right before you enter the intersection come to a stop. Look to your left and on the corner is a green box and a yellow looking pole with a small box. Touchdown is on the green box.  Stand so that you are walking with the flow of traffic. Move forward to the intersection and turn right. Continue to the next intersection and turn right again.  Just after the turn is a white van on your right, with a red thing on the dashboard. Touchdown is on the red thing. Turn and face the same direction as the cars, with the closest building on your right. Go forward and make a right, there will now be a beige building with green letters on your right. Go straight, make a left, when you reach the last bicycle spot, which is in front of the small red awning. Make a u-turn, so that you are now going with the flow of traffic. The beige building with the green letters will now be on your left. Go straight, pass the first intersection and stop when you see the black rectangular sign with an orange circle on your left. It will be on the green scaffolding on your left. Touchdown is on the orange circle on that sign. From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the parked cars on your street.  There should be a green cargo box with a blue tarp on your right.  Walk straight down this street until you pass a long row of blue bicycles and then come to an intersection.  

Take a right at this intersection.  You should pass between a red brick building on your right and a shop with a red awning on your left.  Walk forward and stop in the middle of the next intersection you come to.  

Take a right at this intersection.  You should now be walking down a narrow lane between a red brick building on the right and a black wall with an orange-and-blue poster on the left.  

Walk down this street, and pass a green canopy and then some scaffolding on the left.  Look for a parked motorcycle with a red and silver cover on your left.  You are almost there.  Walk to the end of the scaffolding and green canopy on the left.  Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the rear window of the orange station wagon parked on the right in front of you. Hello. Please orient yourself so that the red brick building with black awnings is to your left. To your right, there will be lots of trees as well as black gate fences. 

Go straight until you reach the first four-way intersection. Turn right here.

You will see some silver gated gardens to your right side with plants and a pine tree along the sidewalk. Go straight, ignoring the three-way turn along the way. Continue straight until you reach the next three-way intersection.

Go straight ever so slightly from the three-way until you are standing next to a red van on your left side. Touchdown will be on the rear wheel, which is closest to you. Good luck! Follow traffic to the light and go left, walking into oncoming traffic. At the next intersection, enter and go right, until you're now in the proper lane, in the same direction, but don't cross any crosswalks.  Instead, turn right, where you should be facing oncoming traffic on a street with a red stripe painted on the shoulder to your right, at the end of which are a row of white bollards with two grey stripes at the top of each.

Touchdown is on the first white bollard with double grey stripes closest to you at the end of the red stripe painted on the asphalt. With a concrete parking garage to your left, go straight through the first intersection. Take a right at the second intersection. Go straight, past some scaffolding on the right. When reaching the crostraightwalk of the next intersection, stop. There are four manhole covers ahead of you. Touchdown is on the farthest one. Go with traffic. Go straight at the first right turn only intersection.  Turn left at the next intersection. Banners hanging on your left. Turn left at the next intersection. Green scaffolding is on the left. Stop at the end of the green scaffolding just before the parking lot next to it. There is a red light on the pole below the green scaffolding. Touchdown is sitting on the red light. Turn so the black iron fence is on your right and you can follow the direction of traffic.  Travel to the first intersection and turn right.  Go to the first intersection and turn right.  The store on your left will have a black sign with a red star on it. Follow this road just over halfway down.  Watch the left side for a brown brick building with two banner flags, one is the flag of the USA.  Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the blue square on the red, white stripped American banner flag that is to the left of the door. Position yourself so the playground is on your right and move forward. Make sure to stay on the service drive. Pass the first street on your right, and turn right at the second one. There's a big pile of black trash bags on the curb just before you have to turn. 

Take this street to where it ends and turn right. Pass the street on your left and also the one that comes after on your right. Now, you have a parking lot on your right and green park benches on your left. Move past the red post on your left and look at where the first building you come to touches the sidewalk and a low black fence. There's a small red sign with writing just below the point where the brick begins on the building. Touchdown is right in the center of that sign.  GO WITH traffic to GO RIGHT at the light. GO RIGHT at the end of the block. GO RIGHT at the 3-way intersection with the orange sign and building with green framing on the right corner. GO RIGHT at the end of the block.

There are brick buildings on both sides of you, but the one on the left is has long vertical windows with white framing, behind a black fence and a cross in a circle on a white facade over the entrance.  STOP when there's a red brick building with a brown base level and long stairs to a dark brown door with a golden stripe alone the bottom.  ROTATE RIGHT to face it.

FIND Touchdown atop center the pink flowers on the second to last stair to the door. Turn against traffic, go to the end of the block and right.  Go right again at the light. You'll be on a street with a rough white stone building behind a green wall to your right.  Traipse forward until you see scaffolding behind Jersey barriers on your left.

Proceed until you're at the gate opening in the scaffolding, such that you can turn left and as you're facing the huge gap, see clearly to your left a white steel roll-up door, with light greyish bricks above it.  There's a very black square in the middle of those bricks.

Touchdown is directly over the soul-wrenching black oblivion. Save the cheerleader, save the world! Move in the direction of traffic: you'll start with a green mailbox on your left.  Move forward until you reach the first intersection.  Turn right: there will be a store with red awnings over the windows on the corner.  Go to the first intersection and turn right.  Watch for a store on your right with a few yellow and purple balloons outside.  Just past this store there is a red fire hydrant close to the buildings.  Touchdown is sitting in front of the hydrant. With the intersection behind you, there will be black awnings to your left.  Go straight through the next intersection.  At the next intersection, take a right turn. There will be scaffolding to your right.  Go to the next intersection and take a right.  When you get to the next intersection, look ahead to your right.  There will be a tan building that has a large vertical yellow sign on it.  Touchdown is on the bottom part of that sign on the circle. Move in the direction of the cars, then turn left at the intersection. AT the next intersection, turn left. Turn left at the next intersection, too. Stop just before you get to the square, red sign in front of you to the left. Touchdown is in the middle of that sign.  Follow traffic on the wide road, where ahead you'll see on the sidewalk a vibrant blue ad on the bus shelter on the right. Go right at the light, where you'll have green awning to your left and a black sign band with white letters on the right.

Go almost to the end of the block. Stop after you pass the blue awning on your right and before the steel rollup door of the red building on the left.  Rotate right. The glass store front of the building with blue awning has an air conditioner. Touchdown is at the center of it. Follow traffic, with the red flags to your right, and go right at the light.  Make another right at the next light. Go to where you're between scaffolding on both sides of the street, and watch on the right for a red light on it.  Stop and rotate right when you get to the black banner on the metal scaffolding before the red light, so you're facing it and the door, but find Touchdown on the red light to the light of it. Follow traffic straight through four lights.  

You should see a building with 8 American flags ahead and left.  Stop just after the last of the first four, and face left, where you should be looking dead-on at the left side of the arch of the door.

Touchdown is adhered to the white-ish light dangling outside on the chain in front of the windows above the door in the archway. Turn so the round green awning is on your left.  Follow traffic down this one way road, until you reach the intersection that this road T's into.  Turn left so you are going down the side road with cars parked on your left.  Follow this road through the first intersection, down a short little bit of road, then turn left following the little curve to the main road.  There will be a store with a green awning a yellow sign on your left now.  Proceed down this road stopping beside the store with orange umbrellas in front of it.  Touchddown is sitting on top of the orange umbrella at the farthest end from you. Turn until you see a white delivery truck parked on each side of the street. Go all the way to the end of the street and take a right. Head down the street until you come to the first intersection. Take a right. You will be facing some yellow buses. Keep going down this street. Bear left before the big orange construction barrier. You will see a bike parked in the median. Go a short distance where you will see three orange cones together on the left side of the street. Touchdown is sitting on top of the cones. Turn so that the green wooden wall is to your left and metal fencing to the right, proceed to the intersection in front of you and turn right.
At the traffic light turn right onto the one way street.
After turning you should see a small area surrounded by orange safety netting directly to your left, go straight down this street.
Notice at the end of this short block some orange barricades in front of you, Turn right at this intersection .
After turning move slowly ahead paying attention to the right side of the street.
Notice a light post to the right with a rectangular white sign with red writing and symbols on it, Touchdown is directly in the middle of that sign. Turn so you are heading with traffic down the street. There will be a row of blue bicycles on your left. Go down this street to the lighted intersection. Take a right here. Stop and look to your right. There is a payphone  with an orange sign on it. Touchdown is sitting on the top middle of the payphone.  Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. Begin moving forward until you reach an intersection. Take a left.

2. When you reorient yourself, there should be a store with a green awning to your left and a tan store with a couple of trees in front of it to your right. Move forward until you reach the next intersection, and take another left.

3. When you reorient yourself, there should be an orange diamond sign on a crosswalk to your right and scaffolding with Christmas lights to your left.

4. Move forward, passing through a three-way intersection on the way. Your destination is a little bit after that.

5. To your right, there should be a building with three identical sets of doors--wooden double doors with several square windows up a small set of steps with black gates and potted plants nearby. Stop when the middle door is to your immediate right. To your immediate left, there should be a small black awning above a door leading into a large brick building.

6. Turning back to the building on the right, you should see two light fixtures on either side of the alcove that the door is in. Touchdown is in the very center of the light fixture on the right.

Good luck! :) You are on a one way road, go with the flow of traffic. You will see an orange and white flag hanging off a red brick building to your right, go past this. Then on the left you will see a fenced in dirt area right off of a building, stop at the end of this fence, to your left will be a blue area on the building. Above the blue area on the building , in the center, is a light case. Touchdown is in the center of this light case.  Turn yourself so the red awnings are on your left. Go straight down this street. There will be no turns. 

Go through the 3-way that comes up right away. Go through the next 3-way at the park on the left. Keep going. Go through the full intersection, going past some construction cones on the left. Keep going to the next intersection and stop just beyond that.  To your right is a store with dark red/maroon awning with orange Asian lettering. On the corner of the awning is an orange circle with two letters in it. Touchdown is in the center of this orange circle on the awning. Turn so all the trees are on your right.  Move forward until you get to an intersection.  This is a double intersection.  You're going to go straight through the first part, and then turn left at the second part.  After your turn you should have the big median on your left (with a pile of dirt in the center and then some orange construction barrels.  Go forward, ignoring the option of turning right as you leave the intersection.  You've got lots of trees on your right.  As you pass the tree area, note that there are two gray fire hydrants that are very close to each other.  Stop when you're right between them.  The bear is on top of the second one (the one more to the left if you're facing the hydrants).  Turn so the wrought iron fencing with the arched gateway is on your left.  You'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street.  Go forward until you reach an intersection, and turn right.  Now you'll have a shop with a green awning on your right, and a building with black fire escapes on the left.  Go forward one very short block to the intersection, and make another right.  On this block you'll have a bright yellow garage door with a mural on your left.  The next thing to look for on your left is a building with bright blue trim at street level, and bright blue fire escapes above.  Then you'll pass a nice garden on the right. A little further down the block is a small shop with an orange awning on the left, and some colorful tiles on the lower part of the wall.  After the orange awning place, you'll go over a speed bump.  Stop when you've just passed the speed bump.  You should be standing next to two white double doors on your right side.  The left set of doors has a gold mail slot.  The bear is on the mail slot. Hello. Please orient yourself so that you are facing the same direction as the parked vehicles. To your left side will be a gray building with blue awning. 

Move forward to the four-way intersection ahead. Turn left. 
You will see many colorful signs on a brick building to your right side now like white, red, black and green.

At the next four-way intersection, turn left again.

Continue forward, following the veer to the left near a white parked vehicle in front of you.
Shift to the right to get back out in the lane so you can continue forward again.

Keep going until you reach the next four-way intersection. 
You will see a red brick building with green awning and red accents to your right side.
There will be a red building with a white sign to your left side. 
Turn left.

Keep your eyes on the right side while walking forward slowly a short distance.
You will pass a green trashcan, a green mailbox, and some silver phone booths all near each other.
After them, you will see a fire hydrant and a white van.

Please stop when you are standing equal with a black fire hydrant with a silver top.

Touchdown will be on the silver top of the fire hydrant. Good luck! Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  Hang a left at the steaming orange and white pipe.  You should see scaffolding on your left.
Turn left at the next intersection as the scaffolding wraps around the building.
As you approach the next intersection, stop in the crosswalk and you will see a black wire trash bin to your right.  Touchdown is hiding at the base of this trash bin. Orient yourself with traffic and so you're moving on the bridge toward the green arrows. Continue straight and approach the arch. Just before going underneath the arch, stop. There is a traffic light signal sign on the right. Touchdown is on the red part of the traffic light on the sign.  Go straight against the flow of traffic. When you get to the light, turn right. Right after you turn, look to the left and you will see a blue box that holds newspaper. Touchdown is sitting on top of this blue box.  Situate yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic. You should be standing right at an intersection. Walk through it and continue down this street. Shortly after you pass a large green building on your left, you'll get to another intersection. Go straight through this one, as well. 

At the next intersection you get to, turn right. After you turn, a street vendor selling hats will be on your left and a food stand with a blue and yellow umbrella will be on your right. Follow this street until you get to the light colored building on your left with purple flags. Once you pass this building, a large parking structure will be on your left. As you walk towards the end of the parking structure, you'll see two orange cones and a ladder across from it on the right side of the road. Touchdown is sitting in front of that first orange cone. Stand so that you are walking with the flow of traffic.  Walk to the intersection and turn right. Walk straight, passing through the first intersection. You will see a purple awning on your right. Just past it is a black awning. Touchdown is the center of the black awning. Orient yourself with the higher barriers to your left. Go straight until you reach the next intersection and take a left.Then take another left when you see a lower red-brown building to the left. Go straight until you see a barricade to the left with a green wall. Touchdown is on the first yellow light on the left, on top of a red barrier. Turn so you are facing the bridge and follow traffic on this road.  Turn right before you go under the bridge.  Follow this road up to the road above, keep going and you'll reach an intersection. Turn right.  There will be  a building with blue and red signs on your right followed by some green construction.  Stop just after you pass the green construction and look to the right.  There is an orang circle with a black arrow cut out of it on a black sign with white letters above.  Touchdown is sitting in the middle of that orange circle on the arrow that is pointing to the right. Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic, and head to the nearest intersection.  Go through this intersection and turn right at the next one.    Take your second right.  Pass the construction barriers on the left.  Look back towards the barriers and you will see a motorcycle behind a brown van.  The bear is on the headlight of the motorcycle.   Turn and go in the direction with the traffic. Turn left at this intersection. Scaffolding on the right. You'll pass thru a traffic light. On the left is scaffolding. On the right 4 orange and white barrels with flower pots on both sides. Touchdown is sitting on the ground in front of the first pot.  Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. There should be an intersection in front of you and construction going on to your right.

2. Move into the intersection, and take a right. There should now be scaffolding and orange and white construction barriers going down the street along the left side after you reorient yourself.

3. Go straight, passing through a three-way intersection. When you reach the next intersection (a four-way), take another right. When you reorient yourself, there should now be a large construction area with green, orange, and white barriers to your left. You're very close to your destination.

4. Count the diamond holes that are on the green construction barrier to your left. When you're even with the third one, stop. Touchdown is in the center of this hole.

Good luck! :) Enter the intersection and turn so that the big billboards with people on them are to your left. Go straight ahead. Go right at the next intersection. Walking down this street, you will see a nice brick building all along the left side of the street, and a construction area along the right. Just past the construction, go left at the first smaller intersection you come to. This will be little more than an alley, with railing  along the sidewalk to your right. At the end of the road, enter the intersection, stopping in the middle of it. Looking to your left, see a rectangular blue sign on the brick building to your right.  Touchdown is sitting on the very top of that blue sign.  Face in the direction of traffic, so that the shop with the red sign, with pictures of sandwiches, is on your front-right. Walk down that street, passing a giant, fenced off beige cylindrical tank on the right. Keep walking, past a shop that has been painted blue on your left. There will be an intersection soon. Cross it, and stop right at the second zebra crossing. There will be a store on your left with red awning, that has a picture of a dog on it. If you look down slightly, you will see a black and silver fire hydrant. Touchdown is sitting on top of it.  Turn yourself so the scaffolding is on your right. Go straight and pass through the first light. At the next light there should be a red brick building on your right, turn right here and go straight. You will have a construction breezeway on your left. You will come to an intersection. Go straight through this one. There will be green construction fencing on both sides. At the next light turn right. You will be on a four lane road with trees in the middle on your left. Go straight just a very short ways until you see the white and blue store on your left. On the white building there are 4 small red squares then gray and red letters. Touchdown will be on the four squares.  This should just be a long straight walk, down a narrow road that is made up of gray bricks.  

From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  The scaffolding and a parked bicycle should be on your right. 

Walk down the road so that the orange and white construction barriers are on your right.  Keep going straight, and then walk straight through the first intersection you come to.  After you pass through the intersection, you should be on another section of this gray-brick road, and there should be rectangular orange signs on the lampposts to both your left and your right.  

Walk straight down the brick road, passing the decorative white awnings on your right, and then past a blue storefront on your right.  

Keep going, and pass a building on the right with white columns and black flags.  Now walk just a bit further, to the end of a long row of blue bicycles.  

Just past the end of the bicycle-row there is a large white stone slab on the right side of the road.  On the face of that slab is a circle of black spray paint.  Touchdown is sitting in the middle of that circle. Put the tall brown buildings on your right and the water on your left. Move forward. There will be an Exit split ahead. Keep right onto the Exit. There will be another split, with a bunch of yellow barrels sitting in between. Keep right again. Touchdown is sitting at the very end of the exit, before you merge with traffic, on top and at the end of the concrete divider to the right. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and you have orange and white cones ahead and on the left.
Follow this road down towards a bridge overhead, passing some yellow doors on the right.
Go under the bridge and through the large intersection ahead.
Next to the playground on the left, you will find Touchdown at the base of the fire hydrant. There is a lot of trash here, put it on your right side and walk forward. At this first intersection, make a left. Make another left at the next intersection. Go straight down this street for a ways, until you see a purple bridge ahead. There is a small, 3 way intersection just before this bridge. Stop here. You should be standing next to a playground with a tall chain link fence. There is a gate in the tall part of the fence. Touchdown is at the bottom middle of the gate.  Face towards traffic, so that the blue and red doors are on your right. Walk to the intersection in that direction, passing the store with the bright orange awning on your left. Turn right at that intersection. Walk forward just a little bit, so you are lined up with the second store with a green awning on your right, and you are just at the end of the red building on your left. You will be able to see a bright green square with nothing on it on your right. Touchdown is in the middle of the square.  Turn so the apartment building with the little lawn is on your left, and the tan building is on your right.  Move forward to the nearby intersection and turn right.  
Now you'll have a store with a long green awning and flowers out front on your left.  Go forward and go straight through two intersections.  The third intersection you come to is a double intersection.  You can turn into the closest lanes, or cross the median area and turn at the farther lanes.  You want to turn right at the closer lanes.  You should end up with the median strip on your left side and a building with lots of oval-shaped steel planters on your right (they have colorful flowers planted in them).
Go forward to the next intersection (it's not far).  Go straight through, but stop before you've actually made it all the way out of the intersection - stop when you're still standing on the crosswalk.  Look to your left, and in the wide median strip there are five bell-shaped metal things that are black on the bottom and white on top.  Three of these are in a row near the end of the median.  The bear is on top of the center one. As you start out, you should see an open area with a piece of green construction equipment to your right. Head straight down the street. As you go, you will pass a long row of blue bicycles on your left.  When you come to the end of the blue bicycles, you will be at an intersection.  Turn left.  You will come to another intersection.  You will need to turn left at this intersection, but do not go any further.  You should see a business with some large, white letters on the corner of the building.  Above the letters is the first of a row of American flags.  Touchdown is sitting on the base of the first flag pole. Going with the flow of traffic, go straight until the street dead ends into another an turn left.   Go straight until you have to veer left so that you can then turn right and go under the overpass. Once you're on the other side of the overpass, turn left.  You should have scaffolding on your right hand side.  At the next intersection, turn left.  You'll be going under an overpass again.  Look to the left, there should be a fire hydrant right before you come out from under the overpass. Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant. You are on a one way road, go against the flow of traffic. At the next intersection make a left. The building to your left will have tall arched windows, at the first crosswalk turn around and go back the direction you came from. You will have green scaffolding to your right. At the next intersection you will make a right, the building with the tall arched windows will now be on your right. Continue straight, passing your starting point. At the next intersection you will make a left and stop in the crosswalk. There will be purple neon signage on a building ahead to your left. Turn to the corner on the left and you will see a trash can with a green liner. Touchdown is in the center of the opening of the trashcan.  Turn so you are facing down the narrower street in this intersection, there will be a yellow green and blue banner hanging from a lamp post just ahead down this street.
Now that you are facing the correct direction travel all the way down this fairly long block passing a number of closed roll down gates to the right along the way and then some scaffolding to the left side.

Upon reaching the traffic light Turn Right then proceed to another traffic light shortly ahead and Turn Right again. There is now a row of blue bicycles on your left .
Stop just before you pass the end of the row of bicycles and look left and see a glass storefront with red symbols on the glass windows, the door is open and Touchdown is on the door handle .

 follow with traffic to the intersection, take a right, there will be a bridge above you, head under the bridge, the walls on the left have graffiti. At the intersection take a right, you will see the green bridge ahead of you and a stone building with an arched tunnel on your right, turn right to enter that arched tunnel and go through it, once out you will see a baseball field to the left, there are rows of trees behind the bleachers, the bear is at the base of the 1st tree Go with traffic. Go straight at the first intersection. Look right and stop next to the green door with yellow banners with red Chinese letters around it. There is a piece of paper taped to the green door. Touchdown is sitting on the piece of paper. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic so there is scaffolding to your left and a phone booth to your right.
Hang a right at the intersection a short distance away where you have a couple orange cones at your feet.  Head forward and slightly right when you can to go down this road.  Be careful not to veer to the left or the right or you will go down a side road instead.  Through this first intersection, you should see a large fenced in area with a red and blue court on it.  Keep going forward and at the intersection you will see a narrow offshoot to the right.
Go forward just in front of it and you will see a green trash can where Touchdown is hiding by sitting on it. Turn yourself away from the intersection here, facing the same way as traffic. Walk down the street. Make a left at the first intersection. Make another left at the next intersection. Stop when you find a long row of bicycles. Touchdown is sitting on the seat of the very first bike in the row.  Go with traffic. Turn right at the first intersection. Turn right again at the next intersection. A red and yellow hot dog cart is on the corner.  Stop next to the two green mail boxes on the left across the street for the entrance to the parking lot. Touchdown is sitting on the cartoon dog logo in the window behind the two green mail boxes. Turn to face the direction of traffic and the closest intersection. Turn right at the intersection.

Walk down to the next corner. You'll have a green traffic median on your left. Turn right at the corner.

Now you'll have a church on your right. Walk down the long block to the next corner.

Turn right one more time. There is scaffolding on your right now. Go down to the next corner.

Turn right one last time. This is your target street. After you pass the construction scaffolding on the left, slow down. Look for a small in-window air conditioning unit in the ground floor window with wrought iron bars. Touchdown is on top of the a/c unit

 Turn and follow the flow of traffic.  Take your first left.  Pass through one intersection, and take the next left.  Looking left there are 2 open garages past the first glass building.  To the right of the right one is a bike leaning on the yellow post.  Bear is on the seat.   Follow the flow of traffic to the first light and turn right. Just as you turn there will be a hot dog vendor on your left and Touchdown is on the sign with a hot dog a pretzel. He is on the pretzel. Go straight in the direction of the bridge and take a right before pastraighting under it. You now have this bridge to your left. Go straight. At the next intersection, take a left, go under the bridge, and turn around. Pastraight through the intersection and there should be a cage to your left and rows of trees to your left and right. Go past the park and keep going straight. At the next intersection, stop. There is a red hydrant to your left. Touchdown is sitting on it. Turn so you're staring at the fenced in play area with a wall with a mural, and go forward and right,  so that you're walking down a one-way street towards oncoming traffic and have a building with green bricks and a blue overhang with white text on your right side.  Walk all the way to the end of the block.  

Take one step into the intersection, so you can rotate around and see the pedestrian crosswalk behind you.   This is important.  You must be in this spot.

You should also see a black fire hydrant with a grey cap to the right of a yellow newspaper kiosk from here.

Touchdown is sitting on the grey cap of the black fire hydrant. Turn so you face in the same direction as traffic and you can see an intersection just ahead. Walk into that intersection and turn right. There will be two candy stores on the corners behind you and a tall building with a spire on top and a red two letter sign in the distance ahead.

Walk forward one block. The street ends in a T. Turn right so that you are going with traffic. Just past the first few stores, on your left you'll see the construction scaffolding with a green roof. On the right you'll see four gray closed doors that look like garage doors that roll up. Touchdown is right between the first and second door, where the sidewalk meets the wall. Orient yourself with traffic and continue straight through the first intersection. At the next intersection, make a U-turn so that you are on the same street but just on the opposite side. The median and the green bike lane will now be on your left. Proceed straight through the first intersection and then turn left at the next intersection. Stop after you are on the opposite side of the intersection as if you were to make a U-turn again. Face the street you were just on and you'll see a supermarket with a red awning on the right and the median will be ahead on the left. Touchdown is on the no right turn sign in front of the supermarket.  Orient yourself so that you'll be going with the flow of traffic, go straight.  Continue straight through the first intersection that has the orange trimmed windows on your left.  At the next intersection, you'll take a left.  You should now have a large blue dumpster on your left.  Look for the yellow sign on your right that is a pedestrian crossing sign.  A little bit after that on the right hand side after the parked white car on your right is a bike that is parked.  Touchdown is sitting on the seat. Head down the street with traffic so that the windows with green and blue are on your right. At the next intersection turn left. Once you turn left there should be white and orange construction barrier on your right side with a lot of plastic wrapped wood forms behind it. Go straight. At the very next intersection turn left again. Go almost halfway down this block. On the right is a large pile of trashbags. There are also orange cones on the right. Touchdown is on top of the very first orange cone. Turn so that you're walking with the flow of traffic. At the next intersection turn left.  Take another left at the next intersection so you keep going with the flow of traffic. Right before you get to the next intersection you will see some red and white construction barriers on the right. There's a fire hydrant about half way down the barriers and a yellow light near the fire hydrant. Touchdown is on the yellow light by the fire hydrant. Stand so that the black awning is on the left. Move ahead to the first intersection and turn left. Continue to the next intersection and turn left again. Now on your right corner is a store with dark blue awnings and on your left is a light tan brick building. Move ahead to the next intersection and turn left. Just after you turn, on your left side is a store with an off-white sign with red letters. Touchdown is in the center of the red letters. Orient yourself in which you should notice two bicycle chain to a pole on your left. Follow the road skipping the intersection you come across and continue forward. As you continue forward you should pass quite a few bikes on your left, an orange cone on your right, tons of trees on both sides, a brown awning on your left, and a blue awning on your right. After you pass the blue awning it should bring you to an intersection in which you should make a right turn. Once you made a right turn pass the red awning and continue forward till you reach the intersection in which you should make a right turn which should put you in the middle of the intersect. To your right is a black fire hydrant. The touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant. Going with the flow of traffic, go to the first intersection and turn right.  If you see scaffolding ahead on you right, you're going the right way.  Take a right at the next intersection. Go a good ways down the road until you notice some construction on the left with traffic barriers.  On the right hand side there's a neon yellow green traffic cone on the sidewalk, Touchdown is hiding on top of that cone. Orient yourself so that you are going down the street with narrower sidewalks and so that the store with red lettering is on your left.  If you are going down the correct street, you should see a fast food street vendor on your left with a yellow and blue umbrella.  At the end of the block, turn left.  You should now have a park like area on the left with a black statue of a man partway up the street.   Just past the statue, you can turn left onto a one way road (there's no traffic light here, but you can see the pedestrian walkway stripes on the road where you need to turn.)   Go past the hot dog vendor on your right, and you should see an open loading area at the end of the building on your right. On your left is another open loading area with painted yellow railings inside and an orange traffic cone.  Touchdown bear is on the curved part of the left corner curb that's painted yellow of this open loading dock.  Turn yourself so the green construction wall is on your left and head down the street.  Turn left at intersection.  You will head down a narrow brick street and see a large green dumpster on your left.  Turn left at the next intersection.  You should see a large red banner on your left and a fire escape on your right as you move down this street.  Turn left at intersection.  A line of trees should be on your right as you go down this street.  Once past the trees, you will see a ramp leading up to a building on your left.  You will pass a green construction wall on your left.  Just before the intersection you will see a fire hydrant on the sidewalk to your right.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant. Rotate to face forward with the forward direction of traffic.

Proceed to the next intersection
Turn left at the intersection

Proceed toward the next intersection, proceeding roughly 3/4 of the way down the block.

To your left you will see a yellow piece of construction equipment near a grey concrete barrier with orange stripes.
Immediately to your left you will see two red scissor lifts.

The bear is sitting in the center of the leftmost wheel of the left scissor lift.
 Position yourself so the orange construction fencing is on your left and the green scaffolding is on your right. Go straight through the first intersection. You'll soon see murals on walls on both sides of the street. Keep going straight. 

The next intersection is a three-way traffic stop You're going to go straight through this one, as well. Right after the traffic light, you'll see a light tan building with dark red doors and arched windows above them. The building has a couple flags extending from it, too. Look for the double doors that are propped open. Touchdown is sitting on the ground in the middle of those open doors. Turn so the metal fence is to the right and river to the left.
Travel straight ahead, staying to the right local one way street. Pass the first T intersection.
The second T intersection (right turn only) is where you will see a brick building with rounded corners and a pile of trash bags on the street.
This is where you will turn right.
Travel this short block to the dead end(playground straight ahead) and turn right again.
Travel straight ahead on this street, no more turns.
Leave the brick building to your right and do the same with the fenced in parking lot.
Just passed that fenced in parking area, turn and look to the right and see the blue benches.
Touchdown is sitting on the  the far corner of the first blue bench




 position yourself so the bus is to your right and the store with red banner/blue name is on your left. Go straight. Turn left at the second intersection. Once you made the turn, you will see a store with red banner and white letter name to your right. Go straight now. Pass the first intersection. You know you have passed it when you see the yellow/blue umbrella to your right. Then heading straight towards the truck with 3 blue letters parked on the right side. When you just passed the truck, you will see on your right side there is a store, there are three skull drawings on them. The touchdown is in the middle on the green skull drawing on the window.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and the park on your left.
Turn left at the next intersection, keeping the park on the left.  Head forward past the 3-way intersection that goes off to the right.  Hang a left at the next intersection, once again, keeping the park on your left again.  Move forward until you're about half-way down the row of cones on the right.  You will be right next to a green pole on the right with a white and red sign.  Touchdown is hiding on this sign. Turn and follow the flow of traffic.  Go through this first intersection, through the next, and then turn right.  There will be a parking lot on your right.  On your left is a green covered walkway.  Just before you pass it, there is a green wall (At the end on the left).  In the middle of the wall is a black tan square.  The bear is in the middle Turn around and face the opposite way that the cars are going where you start.  Move forward and you will naturally veer slightly to the right. Follow this road until the intersection. At the first intersection go off to your left. You will see trees planted in the median in the middle of the road along with a red leafy plant if your going the right way.  Once you pass the median, look right and you will see 5 brown trash/recycling containers lined up along the median. The touchdown is on top of the closest one to you.  You should start out in the middle of the intersection. Orient yourself so that the green awning with a red sign is on your right. Go straight to your first intersection and take a left. There will now be a bank with a red sign and blue letters on your left. Go straight. Pass the yellow and red sign on the right. You will start to see a white building on the left and directly across from that a black fence. In front of the black fence is a red parking sign with red letters. Stop right after that sign. Look to your left and there will be two trees and a parking meter in between them with a blue band. Touchdown will be atop the parking meter.  From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  Walk forward, and stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to.  

Turn to your left, and walk down the narrow road.  You should see a storefront with orange signs above its windows on the right-hand sidewalk.  

Walk down this road, and as soon as you see a road on your left, turn and walk down it.  There should be a dark green tiled wall on your right.  

Walk a bit further, into the intersection, stop, and turn to your left.  You should see a small, brown brick wall in front of a building with white walls on the left-hand sidewalk.  On the right of a narrow street, you should see a crowded parking lot.  Walk a short distance down the narrow street between these two things.  

Touchdown the Bear is sitting on the very top (right at the highest tip) of an orange diamond-shaped sign on the left-hand side of this narrow street.
 With the playground on your right, go straight through this intersection. At the next intersection, turn right.  You'll have another playground to your right.  Go straight through the next intersection. When you get to the next intersection, enter into it,  there will be a traffic barrier on your right up on the sidewalk.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this barrier. Move with traffic,go to the 1st intersection and take a left, the building on your right has red , blue, green, and yellow accents. you will pass a garage door with yellow posts beside it, there will be scaffolding and white construction fencing on your right. Just after that is a building with flower boxes and white shutters on the second floor, the bear is in the middle of the last flower box Go with the flow of traffic, you will have trees with golden leaves on both sides of the street. At the very first intersection, make a left. you will have temporary green construction awning on your right and you will be traveling with the flow of traffic. Go straight through the next three way intersection with no traffic light and you will now have a park like area on your right with a black wrought iron fence around it. Stop just before the next intersection, you will have a clear view of the first crosswalk, there will be a tree with bright yellow leaves directly to your right and to your left will be the very start of a black fence. Turn to your right to look at the tree with the yellow leaves, you will see a plain orange traffic cone behind the fencing sitting on a pile of stones. Touchdown is at the tip of this traffic cone.  Face the direction that the traffic is going. Make a quick right so that the scaffolding is to your left. Go to the end of the block and make a right at the light. Go straight and make a right at the first light. Go straight and make a right at the light and stop when you see the white store canopy on your right right before you get to the orange store canopy. On your left, you will see benches, touchdown is sitting on the first bench by the tree. From your starting point, turn around so that the blue and white shop sign is on your left, and the orange shop sign is on your right.  Walk straight down this street until you come to an intersection.  

When you are standing in the middle of the intersection (between two crosswalks) stop and turn to your right.  There should be a gray stone shop with lots of graffiti on the corner to your right and a building with white paper in its windows to your left.  Walk down the road between these two buildings.  

Keep walking forward, and go straight through the first intersection you come to.  Keep the green canopy and the orange and white construction barriers on your left as you pass through to the other side.  

Walk a bit further and stop in the middle of the next intersection, with crosswalks on all four sides.  Turn to your right.  There should be an empty building with brick pillars and large glass windows on the destroyed sidewalk to your right.  Move forward, keeping that building and sidewalk to your right as you pass.  

Keep moving forward, and pass a red awning with white lettering.  Move forward a bit further until you see some blue bicycles together in a long row of docks.  

Move into the gap between two groups of docked bicycles, and look for a yellow newspaper box with red graffiti on the right-hand sidewalk up ahead.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this box, right above the red spraypaint. Hello, please orient yourself following the flow of traffic. There will be a colorful mural sign on your right side. On your left side will be a building with boarded windows. Go straight down this way until you reach the fourth intersection. Ignore any ability to turn in between these areas. At the fourth intersection; Turn right. There will be gas station with a green and white awning that has a flower symbol in the center on your left side. On your right side, there will be trees and a gated parking lot. Go straight a little bit keeping your eyes on the left side. Just past the gas station are three blue deposit bins standing against a white wall on the left side. In front of them is a black fire hydrant with a silver top in between two silver poles. Click at the top of the black fire hydrant on the silver part to find the touchdown. Good luck! Turn yourself so the orange and yellow newspaper dispensers (on the sidewalk near the curb) are on your left.  Go straight, passing an area where the street narrows because of construction barriers.  When you get to the intersection with the stop sign and a one-way street that goes to your right, turn right.  Go to the next intersection, which is a one-way street that goes to your right, and turn right.  Just past the turn, you'll see a little garden area on your left that is  fenced in with low black wrought iron fencing (it has some small trees and a plain dirt ground). Just past that garden is someone with the hood of their car open.  The bear is at the person's feet (the person working on the car engine). Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic, and head to the nearest intersection.  Turn right.  Pass the playground on your left .  There should be a second playground on your left that is red/white/blue.  Pass the playground part until you are looking at the two basketball hoops.  The bear is on the rim of the one closest to the street.   You're starting out in an intersection.  Turn so the trees with the Christmas lights are all to your left side, and the red sculpture is behind you to the left.  Move forward out of the intersection.  This is a long block (starting with blue rental bikes on your left).  You'll have one opportunity to turn in the middle of this block - it's a pedestrian only turn, which you can ignore.  Keep going to the end of the block, and turn left at the intersection. 
Now you'll have construction scaffolding on both sides of the street.  Watch the shops on the left.  The first batch mostly has red lit-up signs.  Then there's a building without signs that has white bricks.  After that is a shop with a blue lit-up sign.  Stop when you're even with this store with the blue sign.  Just to the left of this shop, if you're facing it, is a doorway in the white brick building.  There is a red carpet in front of that door.  The bear is in the middle of the carpet.  You're going to want to go in the flow of traffic. There should be scaffolding and a construction sign on the left. When you get to the intersection, you need to take a left. You need to go straight through the first intersection. Take a left at the next intersection. There should be a coffee shop and a bunch of red pillars on the left and there's a big poster in front of you to the right. When you come up just behind the sign, you will start to see skinny orange construction things. Your touchdown is on top of the first one behind the black SUV.  Turn so the green construction is on your left.  Follow the flow of traffic down this street, through the first intersection and turn right at the next intersection.  There will now be a store with a red sign and white stars on your right.  Follow this road to the next intersection and look to the store on the left hand corner with red signs and yellow arches on it.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the yellow symbol on the red banner on the end, the one facing the road you are currently on, closest to the corner. Start by turning in the same direction as traffic is moving on this one way street. Proceed up to the intersection and turn right onto the one way street. Proceed to 1 block to the very next intersection, and again turn right. After moving forward once, you will see a sign on the right in the window that says "retail space available". Touchdown is sitting on the T in retail. Get turned so the median is to your left and go straight through this first traffic light. Keep straight at the next traffic light. At the next light turn left almost like you are doing a u turn. Go across to the other direction of traffic on the same street and turn left again. Now you have made a u-turn and are heading back down the same road but on the other side. Go straight through the first traffic light. After this look on the left in the median for a large pole. Go past that pole. Then you will see a small square of concrete on the ground on the left in the median. Go past that then stop. You should see a skinny pole in the median on the left that is closer to the street than the trees are. Touchdown is at the base of that pole on the ground.  Move with the flow of traffic so that the row of bikes is to your right. Move ahead to the intersection and take a left. Move past scaffolding on the right, and go straight through the first intersection. Then pass more scaffolding on your right. Turn left at the next intersection. You will soon come to 2 open garage doors on your left. There are short yellow posts there. Touchdown is on the first yellow post. Orient yourself with traffic and proceed. Go straight at the first streetlight. Pass the blue neon store and a set of scaffolding on your left then stop just before a the first of two red awnings on the right. This building has a plant in a pot at its corner next to some traffic cones. Touchdown is where the plant meets the pot. Go in the same direction as traffic.  In order to do this, you will need to make a slight jog to the left to get onto the road.  Go through the first intersection.  You will also move forward though a second, three-way only intersection.  When you get to the intersection that has orange and white construction barrels, turn left.  Go forward to the first intersection you encounter on this street.  Turn left.  There will a large raised highway on your left.  Move forward just slightly until you are just about to a three-way intersection on your right and more parking on your left.  On your right is a car up on a jack.  Touchdown is sitting on the concrete by the left side of this blue jack that is holding up the car. Stand so that you are facing out of the intersection, with an ice cream cone sign on your right and a red phone booth on your left. Move straight until you reach the next intersection and turn left. Go to the next intersection (a small street/alleyway) and turn left again.

Continue to the next intersection and turn left. Just after it, on your right is a yellow newspaper stand. Touchdown is on the front center of that stand. Go with traffic.(same direction of the large rat!)
Turn left at the first intersection.
Turn left again at the next intersection.
Keep straight.
On the right, there is large red brick building with a blue door with police on the door. 
There is man walking with a brown jacket carrying a white bag in his hand., in front of the door.
Touchdown is just above the man's head.


 Turn so you are going with traffic towards the two stop signs.
Head down the street to the stop signs and turn left.
Go a little down the road and take a right at the stop sign right before the overpass.
Head down that road and take a right at the next intersection.
Go down that street until you come to the major intersection with the red fire hydrant to the left. Turn right here.
Touch down is in the median on top of the yellow post closest to you. It is on the left of the crosswalk.
 Go with traffic and left at the light. Go to the colored geometrical patterns on your right. Turn around and go back to the light. [This may not make sense, but just do it. It's for the data.] When you're back at the light, go left.
At the next light, go left. Stop when you're after the closed overhead door of the building on the left but haven't passed the open one.  There's a yellow sign with a green bottom on the wall in front of you. Touchdown is in the center of the sign. Follow traffic to the end of the block and go left, passing 3 yellow metal poles on your right. Continue to the end of the block, and at the intersection where the rainbow flags are on a building to your left, proceed straight through.

Follow the curve to the left, passing the building with a green awning on your left and the one with the blue awning on your right.  When you get to the intersection, go just left, so that the corner with the orange umbrellas is to your left and you're facing a grey wheel sitting on the sidewalk.  Touchdown is sitting dead center on the bar running through the wheel. Follow the flow of traffic, with the grassy divider on your left, and make a right at the intersection where you see the park on your right. Follow the park to the end of the block and make your last right at the intersection. Pass the red awning on your right and stop when you see the wide opening in the reddish, brown building on your left. Touchdown is on the center of the yellow bar above the opening. Face the direction of traffic and take a left. There now be a curved metal building to your left. Go straight until you reach the first intersection take a left. You should now see a white building with graffiti written on the outside on your right Go straight you will eventually see a parking lot with nothing but white cars parked on the left side. Pass this and keep straight. There will be a red sign with a white star on the right. The touchdown will be at the bottom of the star like its sitting on the letters.  Follow traffic through the first light, and you'll pass white bollards with grey stripes on your right.  Go to the next light and stop just as you reach the crosswalk. Rotate left, and to the left of the blue-framed window the corner store is a colorful red mural with a humanoid at the right.  Touchdown is on his face. Follow the flow of traffic and turn right at the first intersection.Go straight through the first intersection. You will see a storage center on your right. If you go forward you will see a door with a sign with the letter "B" on it. The touchdown is on the letter. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic with two red octagon shaped signs ahead.  Turn right at the intersection ahead.  The building on the left will now have pillars as part of its aesthetic.  
Turn right at the next intersection before you get to the bright blue awning on the left.  When you turn right you will see a green building to the right with steel roll up doors covering parts of it.
Go forward and turn right at the next intersection.  You will see a black overhang on the left with lights trimming it.  Head down to the 3-way intersection with orange doors on the left.  Turn right.  The building on the right will have black pillars.
Head down and you will see a black banner hanging from a building on the right.  Go just past it, turn around and you will find Touchdown hiding on this side of the symbol of this banner. Head in the direction of traffic and continue going straight. You will have the opportunity to turn right, but DON'T. Keep going straight. When you reach the intersection, turn left. Keep going straight. You will reach an intersection, but keep going straight. Just before you reach the next intersection, you will see a bus stop on the right in front of a credit union. Touchdown Bear is sitting in the lap of the person sitting down inside the bus stop on the right. Turn toward the intersection you are upon, and go straight through. This is a narrow one way street and you are going in the same direction as traffic. At the next intersection, go right. You soon realize you are going against traffic, so turn around and go back toward the intersection. Go straight across and stop just past the crosswalk. Turning to your left are stores with green awnings. Touchdown is on top of the red post on the corner. Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street. Go straight until you reach the intersection just ahead, and turn right.  Go one short block to the next intersection, and go straight through it.  At the next intersection you come to, turn right. This is a short block.  Go almost to the end of it, but stop when the white arrows painted on the road are just in front of you (the arrows before the crosswalk).  Just ahead of you on the left is a tiny little island in the road that has plants planted in it.  The bear is right on top of the larger grass bunch in this little garden. Turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street, and you are facing the intersection.  

Walk forward into the intersection and turn right, then walk down the road with the orange barrels on its right-hand sidewalk.  Walk forward down this street and stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to. 

In the intersection, turn to your right, and walk down a narrow road with red walls on both sides, and a green kiosk-style shopfront on the right-hand corner.  You will pass some bicycles on the left as you enter this street.  Keep going straight until you come to an intersection. 

Stop in the middle of the intersection and turn right.  Walk down the street that has a dark red/maroon awning on the right and a shop with red lettering on the left.  

Walk forward, pass a parked truck with a large white trailer, and you should see a yellow sign with red lettering hanging on a wall to your right.  Walk just a little bit past this sign, stop, and look to your right.  

You should see four trash cans, two gray and two blue.  Touchdown the Bear is sitting on the lid of the blue can with the bright green sections. 
 Rotate to face forward with the direction of traffic

Proceed to the next intersection.
Turn right at the intersection

Proceed to the next intersection.
Turn right at the intersection

Proceed toward  the next intersection, travelling slightly more than 3/4 of the way to the next light.

Look to your left as you approach the intersection.
You will see a business with a yellow awning and a red painted building.
When you pass the yellow awning, stop.

On the right side of the street, notice a grey pillar with a blue stripe. The bear is sitting on top of this short grey pillar.

 move through the intersection with traffic, there is scaffolding on the left, at the next intersection take a left, a phone booth and mailbox are at your right, scaffolding to your right. Go to the next intersection and take a left, the store on your right has blue awnings, at the crosswalk is a bust stop, go straight, on your right is a tree with a white bench built around the base, the bear is sitting on the bench facing the street Turn to face with traffic, then go forward. Keep going, it will be a pretty long distance, You will have to do some weird dancing around in traffic in order to keep going forward, between two large groups of trees, but do that. Then keep going forward, past construction on your left and a park/playground on your right. Hit the end of this park, there should be construction on left, a bus stop on the right, and a construction sign and a near empty trash can next to a street light. Touchdown is in the trash can. If you reach the basketball court, you've gone too far. face the intersection and go straight though to take a left, at the intersection keep straight, there is a playground on the right, go through the next T as well, there will be red and blue graffiti on the right, at the next intersection, on the left,  is a light pole with a yellow box with a hand on it, the bear is on that hand You are on a one way street, go with the flow of traffic. Go to the next intersection and make a right, immediately turn around and go back through the same intersection only this time you will go straight across. You will now have street food vendors on both sides of you. At the next intersection, make a left. There will be a construction awning on your left and a light colored brick building with windows on your right. Continue until you get to the stop sign at the next intersection and make a left. There will now be construction awning on your right and a red brick building on your left. Go to the next intersection and turn left but stop in the crosswalk after you turn. Turn to your left and you will see windows with wreaths on them, there are two dark green trash cans on the corner. Touchdown is in the center opening of the trash can on your left.  turn to go with traffic, there will be a playground to your right. There will be graffiti on your left as you go down the street, just past the graffiti you will have the option to take a right, there is a medium with shrubs and trees on the left, there are two read signs in the medium with a white arrow, touchdown is on the second red sign Align yourself so the yellow barrels are in front of you. Back up and head up the street with the scaffolding on your right. Ignore the first two left turns, and take a right at the first right, there should be a yellow umbrella on your left when you turn next to a series of black awnings. Head down until you hit the beginning striped red awning directly on your left. Touchdown is on the bus stop rounded sign in front of the awning. Look around until you see a series of blue umbrellas and put them on your left side. Move forward and tale the first right turn  you come to. You will be moving in the correct direction down a one way street. Take another right turn at the next intersection. There will be some white an yellow construction dividers coming up immediately on your right side. Touchdown is sitting on the corner of these at the far end.j On your right you will see a soccer field enclosed in a large black chain-link fence. On your left you will see traffic and then another fence that is on top of a concrete barrier. Straight ahead you can see a suspension bridge. Head towards that bridge. Now although you want straight it will vary off to the right on a lower street. That is okay. Do not go all the way to the intersection. Before you reach it you will see a fence on your left with razor wire above it, and on the right is what appears to be a residential building with a short silver chain-link fence. You should see our red sign with a white arrow that points both ways. Touchstone is sitting directly in front of that sign. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  Move forward to the end of the road where you can see a playground across the road and turn right.  Head forward into a large intersection and turn right.  You need to be moving with traffic, you will have to maneuver around the intersection to end up in the right lane  When you get it right, on the right ahead on the red wall is a painting of a man with a hat above the storefronts.
Head forward, passing through the first intersection and stop when you get to where the fencing on the right ends at the first white building.
There is a tree right here that has two bands around it.  Touchdown is hiding in the tree where the branches start. Follow traffic to the intersection and go left. (You'll pass flowers on your left as you get there)  You'll be walking against the direction of traffic.
Before reaching the grey building with the blue awnings on your left, there'll be an opening in the road to the right. Take it and go forward.  

Stop before reaching the crosswalk and look left. There is a square red metal pole in the concrete median, upon the top of which touchdown sits. Follow the flow of traffic with the dark red awning on your left. Turn left at the next intersection. Go forward and turn left at the next intersection. The fourth car parked on your left should be a white Honda. The touchdown is on the center of its front tire.  Orient yourself with traffic, proceed, and turn left at the light. Turn left at the next light as well. Go through the first light on this street. Stop in front of the door of the building on the right before the crosswalk of the next intersection. The corner to your right has a green trashcan that Touchdown is on top of. Hello, please orient yourself following the flow of traffic. There will be a large white FedEx truck on your left side and blue scaffolding bars on your right side. Go 4 steps forward into the middle of the intersection. Turn Left. Go Straight down this road 9 steps forward into the middle of another intersection. Turn Left. Go Straight down this road for 14 steps forward. Turn Left again. Take 5 steps forward. You will see a yellow taxi van and a large white truck to your left. Look to your right now at the sidewalk. You will see a green fire hydrant with a silver top in between two green poles next to a tree. Click on the silver top of the green fire hydrant to find Touchdown Bear. Good luck! Going with the flow of traffic, proceed into the intersection and take a right. At the next intersection, you will take a right.  There should be a building with red borders on it to your right, then you're going the right way.  Go straight to the next intersection and take another right.  On the right hand side, there will be black awning on one of the buildings.  Touchdown is hiding in the circle on the front of that awning. Orient yourself so that you see a children's playground behind a fence on your right. Go to the upcoming intersection. Turn right. The playground should still be on your right. On your left you should see a red awning with white trim. Go to the next intersection and take another right. You should still see the playground on your right. On your left should be a building with a green awning. Continue until you come to a black box on your right before a door way with a small grey awning. Touchdown is on the light directly to the right of the awning. Orient yourself with traffic so you are facing the intersection. Turn left at the intersection. Ahead on the left is a wall of blue scaffolding in front of a building under construction.  Continue straight through the next intersection. At the second intersection, make a left and face down the one way street then stop immediately. To your left is a lane closed sign in front of construction barriers and an orange ladder. Touchdown is on the arrowhead of the sign.  Turn and face the same direction that the traffic is going, with the black awning on your left, make a right at the first intersection ahead of you. Go forward and make a right at the intersection, with the burgundy awning on your right. Follow the traffic and stop when you reach the white building to your right with the potted trees out front. Touchdown will be on the light that is to the right of the red awning, that is above the door of the white building. From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the parked cars on your street.  The blue benches should be on your right.  Walk straight down this street and then take a right at the T-intersection.  There should now be a soccer field on your left and a red-walled building on your right.  

Walk down this road, and keep moving forward as the road turns to your right.  Keep walking just past the end of the low gray wall on your left, and then look up ahead for a guardrail with a yellow end section.  Touchdown is sitting right on top of the yellow end of this guardrail. Turn so the Jersey barriers are to your left and walk to the end of the block. Go left, and straight through the first intersection, continuing on until you've passed a gap in the blue banners strung along to your left, and you can turn left and see the corner of the orange metal fences behind the line of silver bollards.  Facing like this, there is a tall green metal pole with pink flowers on top of it ever so slightly to the right of the orange fencing, close to you, on your side of the bollards.

Touchdown sits dead center in the middle of the flowers, on the dirt, at the top of that pole. Turn so that you enter the intersection (You are basically in it) and face so that there is a blue and white building on your left, and red with tan on your right.  Go down this road, and take your first right.  Follow this road to the next intersection  Take 1 step across it and stop.  Look left.  On the light post there is a decorative light.  The bear is in the bottom square. Go with traffic flow to the first intersection and turn left.
Still going with traffic flow go through the next intersection then about half way down the block you will see some scaffolding on the right side. There is a bench on the sidewalk in front of the scaffolding. Touchdown is on the end of the bench closest to you on the seat. From the starting position, turn so that the scaffolding is on your left, and the fence with concrete barriers below it are to your right. Move in this direction until you get to the traffic light. At the traffic light, turn left. You'll pass a playground on your right. Move down this street until you get to a traffic light. Move into the middle of the intersection and look to your left. There will be some traffic cones in the street. Touchdown is sitting on top of the first orange traffic cone. With the green stripe on the asphalt to your left, FOLLOW TRAFFIC and GO THROUGH the light, then GO RIGHT at the next light.

STOP at the end of the weird little passage where you have broad rounded concrete bollards to either side of you and the shop with red awnings behind you on your right. ROTATE RIGHT.  You should be staring at two glass doors flanked by tall bushes on either side.  Above the glass awning is a single grey steel vent in the large granite brick left and above the door.

FIND Touchdown centered on the steel vent grate. Go in the same direction as traffic and go left at the intersection. There will be a red strip of road along the right side of the street. Pass by park on your right, and go straight through the next intersection. Go left at the following intersection.  After you turn, there will be a green awning on the corner store on the right of you. Walk ahead. See a silver metal decoration with stars on it on the building ahead to the right. Ahead on your left is a brown building with lit up blue and red lights in the window. Turn to face it and notice a lit sign of a yellow artichoke on the building to the right of it.  Touchdown is sitting right on top of that artichoke.  Orient yourself so the black rod iron fence is on your left. Travel forward to the intersection ahead and turn left, keeping the iron fence on your left.  Travel the short distance to the intersection ahead and turn left again.  The iron fence will still be on your left.  Follow this road down to the next intersection and turn left again.  There will be a blue, red, and green iron fence on your left now.  On your left, on the corner of the colorful fence there is a black lamp post with a garbage can to the left.  Touchdown is sitting on top of that garbage can, in the middle. Position yourself so the orange and white construction barrier is across the median on your left and a one level brick complex with several stores is on your right.

Go straight through the first two intersections. When you get to the third one, move into the intersection, turn left, and then turn left again  immediately. So, you'll be facing the way you just came from, but you'll be on the opposite side of the road. After you make the turn there will be a parked motorcycle and then four orange and white construction barrels on your right. Just past those barrels is a green sign pole with a small blue circular sign on top. Touchdown is sitting on that blue sign.  To your left is a red brick building with a black fence around it. It also has large black gated windows. To your right is a building which is white on the bottom and has a whitest brick top.
Go straight on this road.
When you reach the first intersection make a right.
You will know you're on the correct road if to your left there are planters in the middle of the street. And on the right there is a building with large arched red wooden doors with black hinges.
Continue straight until you reach the next intersection then make a right.
Continue straight until you reach the next intersection and make another right.
You will know you're on the correct road if to your right is a whitish colored stone building. Followed by another white building with blinds in the windows.
In front of the second white building close to the doors you will see a red sign with white letters in the white arrow. Touchdown will be in front of the sign. Orient yourself so there is a parking lot on your left and a fenced in apartment building on your right.  Go down this road to the next intersection and turn right.  At the next intersection, turn right.  Walk down the road, counting the trees on both sides of the center median.  Touchdown is at the base of the fourth tree, the one right before a light pole. Face the direction so you are going with the flow of traffic. There will be green vegetation on the left. There will be some parked cars on the right side of the street. At the first car, intersection take a right turn. There will be a green boarded area on the left. Pass through two intersections at the third one you will turn right. After turning, the building on the right will be a yellow building on the left will be brightly painted wall art. Down the street, you will come to a break between buildings on both sides of the street. On the left side is a chain linked fence. Near the opening is a large black square sign. The Touchdown is in the center of the sign.  Align yourself so that you'll be going with the flow of traffic and so that there's bicycle racks on your right.  You're going to go straight for awhile.  When you get to the fourth intersection, traffic won't be able to turn to the left at the intersection, there's a large boulder and neon yellow signs.  Take a right turn.  Look on the right side of street for a green staircase going up to a green door.  Touchdown is hiding on the white sign on the door. Turn so the traffic median is to your left. Walk down to the light. It will be the first right turn you can make. Turn and walk down this street. There will be a big off street parking lot to your right. You're going to walk down this street a fair way. You'll pass fenced lawn areas on both sides of the street and some driveways, but no street intersections. When you see a freeway overpass/bridge up ahead, slow down. You will see a tall box truck with images of New York on the side parked right behind a delivery truck. Turn to your left to see a round manhole cover. Touchdown is sitting on top of the manhole cover. Follow traffic to the light and go left, and go left again at the next light. Stop when you see the green dumpster with the blue tarp ahead and left.  Rotate left.
You should see a building with a white base and red brick second floor, between a building with a grey first floor and white second floor on the left and a brown building on the right.

Touchdown is impaled on the light over the red door in front of the steps descending to it. From your starting position, turn around so that you are facing the rear lights of a white minivan, and you see a white pickup truck on the right side of your street.  Now start walking forward.  It will be a long walk, but if you see a large yellow truck unloading on the right side of the street, you are going the right way.  Just keep going forward.  You will soon come to an intersection with crosswalks, and you will see a red and black store in front of you, but keep walking forward through this intersection and past that store.  You will soon come to another intersection.  This time you should see a dark red canopy and a phone booth with an orange advertisement on your right.  Take another step forward into the intersection, and then turn right, so that you are walking towards a large silver bus.  Keep walking until you see pedestrian crosswalks and a green sign with "TD" on your left.  When you are inside the intersection, turn to your right so that you see the back of a large red truck and a white bus.  Take one step onto this street.  Look up and to your right, and you will see a black and white banner with three sets of numbers printed on it.  Touchdown the Bear is on top of a grey air-conditioning unit besides this banner. Orient yourself so you are travelling WITH the traffic on this oneway street. Make right at the first intersection. Follow the traffic and make another right at the next intersection. Not far down this street there will be two big green dumpsters on your right. and an american flag on your left. the touchdown is located on the stars of the american flag. Go  in the direction so that the diner is on your left. Go straight through the first intersection. Turn right at the next intersection. You will see a stop sign on your right where cars are able to merge onto the road you are on. Touchdown is in the middle of the red part of the stop sign. Rotate until you're facing down the street such the corner shop with the blue sign band and white glyps, with occasional white banners with red glyphs, is to your left, and take a single step forward.

Rotate slightly right, and find Touchdown atop the bronze top of the thin red metal call box on corner in front of the shop with the white sign band and green glyphs. Turn to move with traffic ,go to the 1st intersection and take a right. you will have scaffolding on the left and a red awning on your right. Go to the next intersection and take a right, there will be stairs leading to the subway on both sides. There is construction fencing on your right, at the end of this fence there are two orange lights atop the fence, the bear is on the corner light Turn so that the restaurant on the corner is on your left and the coffee shop is on the right. Go forward with the flow of traffic to the next corner. At the intersection, turn right so you've got a red brick building to the left and right. Move forward down about a block. You'll go through the three-way intersection. About half a block down, there's a pizza place next door to a fitness place on the right. Touchdown is on the kiddie seat of the bicycle locked up on the curb in front of the fitness place. From your starting point, please turn around so that the intersection is behind you, and you are facing the same direction as the parked cars on your street.  The black benches and the baseball field should be on your right.  Walk forward, pass a bright yellow sign on a pole on your right, and go straight through the first intersection you come to.  

Pass a yellow awning with red characters on your right, and keep moving forward until you come to another intersection.  

Take a left at this intersection, so that you walk down a street between a green awning on the right and a red awning with a yellow stripe on the left.  Keep going straight down this street until you are approaching another intersection.  

Just before you step onto the crosswalk, look to your right for a red newspaper box and a blue mailbox with white spray paint.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the blue mailbox.    Move with traffic on the smaller street, so that you pass the big brick wall on your right. Move forward until you reach an intersection, and turn right. Now you should have a grass area on the right. Move ahead straight through one intersection. Then pass another grass area on the right. Stop in the middle of the next intersection. Ahead on your right is a short red faded post. Touchdown is on top of that post. Turn so the nearby intersection is at your back and you'll be going with the flow of traffic on this one-way street.  You'll have a building with a red sign/strip along the top of the first floor on your right.  Go straight through the first intersection you come to.  Not far past that you'll reach a three-way intersection.  Turn left here. Now you'll be on a block where the building on your left has a silver and white patterned wall, and there's a green pedestrian bridge ahead of you and several floors up.  You're going all the way to the other end of this block.  When you get to the other end of the block, stop when you're in the middle of the intersection. The corner ahead of you on your left has a round trash can.  The bear is on that trash can.
 On your right should be a couple buildings with gates over the front of them. They have blue and gray awnings. On your left is a black fence that makes and oval shape and on has trees in it.  You will notice there is a building on the left past the fence with the trees that has an orange and green sign. 
Take this road straight until you reach the first intersection at which point you will make a right. 
Head straight and go through the first intersection continuing straight. 
When you reach the second intersection make a right turn, and head straight. 
You will see a red building on your left with an ATM built in the wall. On your right you will also see a small red building with a red bench out front. go right past here and cross through the intersection (continuing straight and you will find a small gray ATM on your right. Touchdown is sitting right on top of it.It is on the corner by a gray pillar which is at the corner store. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic with the construction barriers ahead.  Go through this intersection to the next one.

Turn left and the corner on the left should have a grey building.  Go forward and you should see some scaffolding with a large red advertisement on top of it.

At the intersection continue straight.  You'll be by more scaffolding on your right.

At the next intersection you'll see a large red dumpster.  Move forward one step and it will disappear.

Turn left and you'll see a purple flag on your left.  Go down this road.

When you get to a red banner hanging off a building on the left and a white sign with a number on it right behind it, stop.  Touchdown is on the middle number of the white sign with blue text. Hello. Please orient yourself facing the center of the intersection with the flow of traffic. A white stone building with three blue awnings will be on your far right side. To your left side, there will be a black building with white stone square columns with a green mailbox on the corner of the sidewalk. 

Walk forward straight through the intersection. You will pass a black building on your left side with lots of red flowers painted on the windows. There will be a tall black fence on your right side. Keep going forward.

When you reach the next intersection, turn right.

Walk forward, passing by some scaffolding with green awning on your right side. As you approach the next intersection, the lanes will split. Please shift to the left lane when possible before you reach the crosswalk of the intersection.

When you reach the center of this intersection, you will be facing a small median with trees in front of you. There will be a bright orange newspaper stand to your left side near a trashcan and a pole. 

Walk straight forward through this intersection but stop immediately after you have done so. You will be very close now to the orange newspaper stand. Touchdown will be on top of this bright orange newpaper stand. Good luck! Position yourself in which there is a bicycle on your left hand side. Follow the road, passing various black garbage bags, trees, fire hydrants, wooden ladders, and eventually you should arrive at an intersection with two orange cones blocking the entrance of the turn. Make a right turn, Continue forward passing various orange barrels, bikes, and buildings with stair cases. Once you pass all of these you should come to another intersection. Make a right turn at this intersection. Once you made a turn, there should be two bicycle one on your left and the other on your right. Pass these bicycles and continue forward passing various cars parked on both side of the street. Eventually you should arrive at an intersection after you pass the white and orange barricades on your left. Make a right turn and pass the garbage bags on your right and cars on your left. Once you pass the last car on your left. The touchdown is on top of the trash bin located in front of you to the right. Turn to face the flow of traffic. Follow this road until it dead ends. Take a left. Go down to the next intersection and take a right. Follow this road straight through the first 3 way intersection.  You should have a bunch of basketball courts on the left behind a fence. When the basketball courts end look right. There should be a bunch of park benches and a single tree in the front. Stop in front of the tree.

Touchdown is sitting on the orange barricade to the left of the tree right in the center of it. 

 Turn so the construction scaffolding is to your left. Walk down the street to the next intersection. Turn right. Go forward to the next intersection. Turn right, keeping the construction scaffolding on your corner on your right.  You'll walk down the street until the lane is diverted for the construction. Walk until you see a black fire hydrant on the left. Walk just past the hydrant, and you'll see a red awning coming up on the left. Touchdown is at the top of the awning closest to you. Facing the fork in the road, bear left. At the intersection make a left The second building on the left has arches around the ground floor windows and rainbow flags on the third floor balcony. At the next intersection, there are rainbow flags on the green scaffolding awning. make a sharp left at this intersection, following the awning down the street. you will be keeping left through the fork in the road. Go straight through the small intersection on the right. At the next intersection there is a red door on the building on the left, make a left herekeeping with the flow of traffic. On the left is a building with white columns and red doors. Touchdown is in front of the single red door to the left at the top of the stairs. First orient yourself so that you're going in the same direction of traffic and the building with the large blue temporary wall is to your right. Turn left at the intersection. A pedestrian walkway will be to your right and a large building with glass windows will be to your left. Walk down this road.  At the large intersection. turn left.You'll see a median. Touchdown will be in between the two short black pillars. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Turn left at the next intersection.  You will have orange/white barriers on your left when you do.
Turn left at the next intersection.  When you do, you'll have a black awning to your right and a blue/yellow umbrella ahead on the left.
Moving down this street, you'll see a business on your right with an orange and red sign.  Stop just past that and you'll see a fire hydrant with a silver top.  Touchdown is on the silver top.
 Start by positioning yourself with the bridge to your left and then go forward. Pass the first intersection that is right after you start and continue straight, pass second intersection and keep going straight, at the third intersection turn right. you should have a park like are to your left. Keep walking until you reach an intersection and then stop. Touchdown is sitting on top of the red hydrant to your left. Align yourself with the blue noodle sign on your right. Walk to the street and make a right. Keep on for the first series of arrows, and turn right for the second. Follow this road until you reach the first right. Six steps down you'll see a black truck. Touchdown is on the yellow license plate on the black truck. Orient yourself in the direction of the red scaffolding ahead to the right. Take an immediate left. Go straight. You will see some flags to the left. Keep going straight. Go past the intersection that is past the building with green windows to the left. At the next intersection, take a left. You will see a greenish lamp in front of the scaffolding to the left. It is the first one you see. Touchdown is sitting on top of it. turn yourself so the orange barrels in the median are on your right and head down the street.  Continue going past green construction scaffolding on your left. Take right at intersection when scaffolding ends.  Immediately take another right as you would if making a u turn and head down the street.  Gray construction scaffolding should now be on your left.  Go through intersection and two American Flags will be on your left as your pass. Continue through next intersection. The center median to your right should contain planter boxes with small trees in them.  Scene may suddenly shift, turn yourself so fire hydrant is on your left and head down the street.  Gray scaffolding should appear on your left.  Continue past flags on your right. Touchdown is sitting on an orange barrel in the middle of a group of road hazard barriers formed in a square on your right. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Head forward, passing a jutting green awning.  Keep moving forward and stop when you are next to a clear jutting covered walkway on the left surrounded by orange and pink flowers in planters.  On either side of this walkway are two trash cans.  Touchdown is on top of the left one. Once in the intersection, turn so the black iron fence is to your right and go down the street. At the end, go right. The fence is still on your right. At the next intersection, go left. Go through the next intersection, passing multiple blue flags on your left. Stop in the middle of the next intersection and look ahead to the right. Touchdown is sitting right on top, in the middle, of the gray trashcan. Align yourself with the flow of traffic. Take the first left at the intersection, and follow this road down past the school buses. One step before the next intersection, On your right, there should be a trash can with a box in it. Touchdown is on the box. Stand so that you are walking with the flow of traffic.  Go straight until the intersection, and turn right. Continue to the next intersection, and turn right again. Walk straight a bit until you see on your left a small black awning with red letters, with a small orange circle in the middle. (Above the black sign is a small round pink sign.) Touchdown is the orange circle. Align yourself so the construction is on your right, and you're looking at the cement mixer ahead. Head in to the intersection and make a right.

Head down to the next intersection, with graffiti on the shutters, and make another right here. Shortly after, make another right. you'll pass straight through one intersection, and you should stop just past the green machine on your right. There should be a small drawer or planter, black, with grass or weeds growing out of it. Touchdown is in the middle of the planter. Step into the center of the intersection, and turn to exit the intersection with the blue mailbox on your left, and the awning with gold lights up ahead to the right. Continue to the next intersection, and turn left. Now move straight ahead to the next intersection and turn left again.

Now there should be a phone booth on your left as you round the corner, quickly followed by scaffolding around a metro station. Move past this, with a short concrete border with flower designs in it on your right. You'll be forced to veer right; then continue straight through the intersection and stop. Face left and there is a trash can next to the streetlight pole. Touchdown is on top of the trashcan. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and a yellow dumpster on your left.  Head forward and through the first intersection.  You should see scaffolding ahead on the right.
Turn right at the next intersection.  There will be red awnings on your right and a painted mural on the left once you do.
Turn right at the next intersection which will put a green wrap around awning on your left and a phone booth on your right.  Go forward until the end of the green retaining wall on the right and through the intersection.
Touchdown is on your left on a multicolored striped awning. Align yourself with the flow of traffic in your lane. Ignore the immediate left turn, and make a right at the intersection. Make another right shortly after at the next intersection. You should be heading down a small street with scaffolding on your left. On your right, you will see wood replaced with the wall in sections on this building. Stop at the largest section with the open door, and the orange wooden bin for materials in front of you. Above you, you should see a black and green awning covering the entrance of the building with the address. Touchdown is sitting on the corner closest to you, above the green. Go against traffic and left at the light. Make another left at the next light. Go three-quarters of the way down the block, passing a very glassy building on your left, before arriving at a dark brown one with many pillars, that has a green banner flag with yellow text before it.  Face the store so that flag is to the left of your view.

Almost straight under it, near the curb, is a squat old ugly hydrant between two rusty bollards.  Touchdown sits atop the hydrant. Go straight with traffic. At the intersection bear right. You will see an orange store with a red awning on your right. At the light take a left. You will see a beautiful stone archway ahead. Go straight and stop when you are in the archway. You will see three vents on the right side of the structure. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the middle vent.  Turn and go in the same direction of the traffic. Turn right at the intersection. Bright yellow trees are on the left. Black awning on the right and green awning on the left. Turn right at the next intersection. Basketball court to the right. Go into the middle of the next intersection and look to the right and you will see a black trash can. Touchdown is sitting on the top.  Follow traffic and go through the light, to the next one, and stop in the middle of the intersection.  

Touchdown is on top of the red metal thin square call box on the right hand corner in front of you. There should be a median on your left with trees and grass, go with the flow of traffic until you reach an intersection.  At this intersection take a u-turn.  Before you get to the next intersection, be on the lookout for a building that has a green awning on the right hand side.  Right after the green awning, Touchdown will be sitting at the bottom of the tree. Hello. Please orient yourself with the flow of traffic. To your left, there will be orange and white construction barrels with yellow tape. To your right, there is a silver food truck with lots of colorful signs on it.

Walk forward straight all the way through this wide four-way intersection. Once you have crossed, to your left you will see orange mesh fences with an orange and white striped barrier. 

Continue straight until the next four-way intersection. Turn right.

Walk straight to another four-way intersection. Turn left. Please stop once you have turned. 

Look to your left side. There will be a brown brick building with a red awning and lots of colorful food signs. Look down at the sidewalk next to this building. There is a black fire hydrant with a silver top. 

Touchdown will be on the silver top of the black fire hydrant. Good luck! Go with the flow of traffic.  There will be some scaffolding on your right.  
Go to the first intersection and turn right.  There will again be scaffolding on you right.  
Go to the next intersection and turn right again.  Yet again there will be scaffolding on your right.  There will be a small blue stripe on the building to your left.  Head down this street watching for some blue awnings on the left across from a blue stone building.  After this you'll see a blue sign followed by a maroon sign on your left.  Pass these, but then stop before you get to the white barriers on the right.  There is an orange cone in front of the barrier closest to the street.  Touchdown is sitting on top of it.   Turn until the orange and black sign on the traffic light sign pole is on your right. There will be brick buildings to your right as well.  Walk ahead and take your first right. There are 2 mailboxes with white graffiti all over them immediately on your right. Go straight past them. Keep walking past the yellow sign with people on it and a flag to the right of it. Keep right, which is straight ahead,  as the road turns into a V shape. Take the first right hand turn, keeping a row of green hedges along a black iron fence to your right. Pass by the first sidewalk entrance along the black iron fence. Come to the next break in fence, which is a driveway. Face the fence and see the top of an orange cone behind the shrubs by the driveway.  Touchdown is sitting right on top of that cone. Begin moving with the flow of traffic. There will be a business on your right with red and white signs, and there is scaffolding starting right where that business ends. Go straight through the first intersection, and turn right at the second one. 

After you turn, you'll see a restaurant on your left with tables and chairs outside under red awnings. As you move forward, you'll see a variety of flags on your right. Look for the orange and white flags hanging from street light poles. They have a picture of a lion's face on them. Touchdown is on the second orange and white flag, sitting on the lion's nose.
 You are on a one way road, go with the flow of traffic. At the next intersection make a right, you will see a blue vertical banner on the street lamp to your right, go straight and at the next intersection make a left and stop in the crosswalk. Turn around and go back to the intersection but go straight through it this time. The building on the left will be mostly glass windows and on the right will have red with other colors awning. Continue straight for some time, and when you  are nearing the next intersection, you will see a maroon walkway canopy on the right and across from that a light pole. Stop right at this light pole, and turn to the left. On the light pole is a red with white sign. Touchdown is in the center of the red with white sign.  Orient yourself so that the heart is to your right. Go straight through the intersection and there should be a park to your right. To the left there is a store with big red markings. Touchdown is in the central entrance of that store. turn to move with traffic, there is an american flag hanging on the left,go to the next intersection and take a right. There are two blue mail boxes and a telephone booth on your left,go to the next intersection and take a right. The store on the right has pictures of men in plaid shirts, you will pass an underground parking garage on the left, there will be a yellow awning on the left and scaffolding on the right,. When the scaffolding ends, there is a brown door with a metal square next to it on the wall, the bear is on the metal square Check surrounding and head in the direction of the traffic. Follow the road passing all the park vehicles and buildings till you arrive at an intersection. Make a left turn at the intersect and continue forward. Along the way you will pass a building with a ladder going towards the roof and a van with some graffiti. Eventually you will arrive at another intersection in which you should make a left turn again. Follow the road and pass the red building on your right in which you should notice there is a dark beige building on your right with three separate stairs leading to different doors. Continue forward until you notice a fence around a building with 3 trees near the curb on your right. You should be in front of the second and third tree. In front of you, you should notice an A/C. The touchdown is sitting on top of the A/C. Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Move ahead to the intersection, and turn right. Go to the next intersection and go right again. Go to the next intersection and go right again. Then (shocker), go to the next intersection and go right again. Move forward halfway down the block, and you are almost where you started. On your right will be a store with bright red frames, and on your left is a store with neon pink lights in the windows. Touchdown is in the center of the smaller window with neon lights. Follow the cars into the intersection and turn left.  Go down this road until you are almost at the intersection.  There will be a fire hydrant on your right.  The bear is on top. head down the street in the direction of the parked cars
at the first intersection turn right and continue down the street
at the next intersection go right and continue down street
on the right side you will see a red moped parked behind a dark colored car 
the target is on the moped seat
 

 Follow the flow of traffic, where the orange/yellow billboard is on your right, and stop when you get to the circular seating with plants on your left and scaffolding on your right. There will be a red sign on a pole to your left, Touchdown is on the red sign. Go with traffic.
Go straight at the first intersection. Purple Panthers banners on the right corner.
Turn right at the next intersection.  Large parking lot on your right.
Turn right again at the next intersection. 
Stop just pass the fence of the large parking lot on your right. Look on the building there are two red fire hydrant ports in the wall. Touchdown is sitting in between the two red hydrant ports. 

 Turn and walk in the same direction as traffic. Go right at the intersection. Go right again at the next intersection. The street is narrow due to an orange and white wall blocking part of the road on the right. Go past where the wall ends, seeing a blue garbage can ahead on the left. Pass by it, also passing by a stairwell with red handrails on your right. Stop right at the end of the brick building before the basketball courts on your right. Facing the building and the courts, you will see a small gray curved pipe on the sidewalk against the building wall. Touchdown is sitting directly on top of that pipe.  Turn yourself so that you are going with the flow of traffic. To your right you should see silver poles with lights draped on them. Go straight until you come to the first traffic light. At this intersection, make a left turn. There will a long rack of blue bicycles to your left. Past those on your left you will see some green construction fencing. Look to your right and you will see three wooden boxes. Right after the boxes there will be two double wooden doors on your right. Touchdown is sitting in between the double doors.  Turn around until you are facing with traffic, then go forward to the end of the block, and the intersection after it. On your left will be purple trees, and a black flag with red letters. Go right instead, and walk to the end of this block. On your right, there should be a store with a photo  woman wearing tights in the window on your right, along with two mannequins. Turn right, and go forward until you pass a window sign with a small child, and a lot of small child mannequins in front of it. You should also be standing right in front of a door, which is just after the window with the kids. Touchdown is on the ground, right in front of that door. Face the flow of traffic. There should be some outdoor seating to your right with orange banners on the railing in front of the chairs. Go to the intersection and take a right. There should be some scaffolding on your left and a green dumpster on the right. Go to the next intersection an there will be a restaurant with red to your front right. Touchdown will be on the right lamp directly above the red painted grid.   Stand so that you are walking with the flow of traffic. Move forward, through a 4 way intersection, until you reach the next 4 way intersection. Turn left here. Walk to the next intersection and go left again. 

Move forward a bit and there are 2 fire hydrants across from each other. Touchdown is on the fire hydrant on your right.
 Turn and go in the same direction as traffic, keeping an iron fence to your right. At the interconnection, go right. There are small yellow signs with black figures on them ahead on both sides of the street.  Go forward.  Go right at the upcoming intersection. A store with a green awning is on the right side of you. A blue sign with white people is immediately on both sides of the street. Go ahead. At the next intersection, go right. Stop just after crossing the crosswalk and turn and look to your right. Touchdown is sitting right on top of the fire hydrant that is between two red posts.  Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street. Go straight until you reach an intersection, then turn left.  Go to the next intersection (it's a short distance), and make another left.  You'll be on a cobblestone street.  You'll pass straight through a small intersection (barely noticeable - no light or stop signs and it looks like an alley/driveway).  When you get to the "real" intersection at the end of the block, turn left.  You'll have orange and white construction barriers along your right.  Go to the intersection ahead (short distance), and make a left. When you're barely out of that intersection (crosswalk still under your feet if you look straight down), look for the little gray/black fire hydrant on your right (before the racks of rental bikes).  The bear is on the fire hydrant. Turn to face the same direction as the traffic and make a right at the second intersection. Follow the park to the end of the street and make a right. Touchdown will be to your right, on the purple flag, with a torch in the center. Orient yourself so the divider in the middle of the road is on your left and the dark red awnings are on your right.  Walk down the road, through the two intersections.  As soon as you cross the second intersection, stop and turn around 180 degrees.  Walk back the way you came, going through two intersections.  As soon as you cross over the crosswalk of the third intersection, stop.  Look to your right, at the center median.  There is a street light pole that has a yellow box with a black screen, currently showing a red hand, but can also show a white figure walking.  Touchdown is in the center of that black screen. Hello, please orient yourself going against the flow of traffic as if you want to walk straight into an oncoming car. There will be plants on your right side and bicycles with parked cars on your left side of this street. Go straight down this road. After a few steps forward, a side street will open up on your left. Ignore this. Continue going forward about 9 more steps. You will see a way to turn right at this point. Ignore it. You want to keep straight on this road no matter what. Take 5 more steps forward into an intersection. Attempt to Turn Left here. It will seem to step you forward instead of actually turning left. This is okay. Attempt to Turn Left again, it will be the proper left turn. Don't let that confuse you. Trust me. There will be a yellow crosswalk sign on your right and trees next to a building on your left. This is the way to go. Go straight for 7 steps forward. There is a side street that opens up on the right. Ignore it. Continue straight on this same road. Another 3 steps forward will open up a side street on your left. Ignore it. Keep going Straight forward another 3 steps. This opens up a side street to your right. Please do ignore this as well. Apologies for all these extra steps. You will see an orange school bus ahead of you. Take one last step forward straight on this same road. Now you are in the spot. To your right side is a parking lot with a gate. To your left are trees and 3 green benches. Look at the street signs to your Left. Find the red and white sign on the pole. Click the top red part of this red and white sign to find Touchdown Bear. Good luck this was a hard one! Face the same direction as traffic. Go straight passing a tall red building on your right. At the first intersection take a right and go down to the first intersection. Take another right. The red building will be on your right and there will be concrete stripe barrier on the left. Go straight to the end of the road. There will be orange gates blocking the road straight and you can only turn left but don't turn. Look to your right and you will see a metal post with a green box on it. There is a blue newspaper box next to it. Touchdown is on top of the blue newspaper box.  Follow the flow of traffic and go straight through the first intersection. Turn left at the second intersection. Go straight through another intersection and stop before the second.The touchdown is on the left side of the street at the base of the green trash can.  Orient yourself with traffic and make an immediate right turn. Turn right at the next intersection. Proceed and make another right at the next intersection. Make another right at the next intersection. Stop when you pass the last black awning on your left. On your right should be a gray awning. Touchdown is in the center of the design on the gray awning. Go in the direction that puts the sports play area on your left. Make a left at the next intersection. Make another left at the next intersection and stop just past the crosswalk. Look to the right and there should be a green store front and a black and silver fire hydrant. Touchdown is at the top of the fire hydrant.  Follow the flow of traffic, with the potted plants on your left and make a left at the intersection. Pass the mailbox on your left and follow the flow of traffic, making a left at the traffic light. Continue down this brick road, passing the orange/white barriers on your right and make your last left at the intersection. Follow the green lane on your right and stop after passing the first traffic light. On the right side of the road, in front of you, on the ground, there will be a painted white bike image. Touchdown is on the back wheel of this painted bike. face so you are moving with the flow of traffic and go straight through the first 3 way intersection at the second intersection with the building site on your right take a right once you are on this road on your left is a blue brick wall with doorways go past the 4th doorway which is a double doorway  take 3 more steps and on your left on the pavement is 2 paler paving stones on the edge of the road touch down is in the middle of the crack between  these 2 paving stones If you are in the correct position is a gray building to your left with gray door. To your right is a black building with large windows and manikin in the window. Head straight the road dead ends in the s'more buildings you must turn left. If you turned in the correct position to your left you will see a bunch of plastic hanging making a wall. Go straight to the next intersection. The road dead ends and you will turn right. On your left you will see lots of gray doors with graffiti written on them. Please continue straight. When you reach the next intersection please make a right. You should now be on a road which on your left has orange and white construction barriers with a green wall on the other side of that. On your right arm around buildings with brown bars over the windows.
Please continue straight until you reach the next intersection. Now make a right turn. On your left you will run into a white building with lots of doors and a black banner hanging down. Touchdown is directly below the black banner hanging in the sky. He is in the center. Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic, facing away from that close intersection. Go straight through one intersection. At the second, turn right. Continue until you are almost at an intersection. On your right is a red food truck. Touchdown is on the driver's side window. Follow the cars into the intersection. Turn right.  Go to the next intersection and turn right.  Continue to the next intersection and turn right.  There is a neat place with wooden sides at this intersection.  Walk forward.  There is a flag or sign that is blue and red in the air.  Walk until you are just past that.  The next place has a wooden door and the numbers 1 0 5 above it.  The bear is on the 0  If you are in the correct position there is a green wall to your left. There is also a blue colored brick building silver garage doors to your right. Please head straight on the street.
When you come to the intersection please make a left turn. Continue straight until you reach the next intersection.
Now make another left turn. If you have turn in the proper position there is a black fence to your right, and a green wall to your left.
Continue straight, you will shortly have an opportunity to turn right but you do not want to. Continue straight looking to your left for a fire hydrant. It is in front of the green wall on your left touchdown is sitting directly on top of the fire hydrant. Move forward under the overpass. Follow the road through the tunnel. Continue until you see a row of orange cones across the road blocking part of a roadway. Touchdown is just past those on top of the yellow plastic cans with a black lid on the left.  Follow the street that bends and has the green scaffolding on the left. Turn right at the first intersection. Turn right again at the next intersection. Stop just before the start of street divider, on the left, before the next intersection. Look right from this position at the two lights on the building with the large arching windows. Touchdown is sitting on the bulb of the light nearest to you. Turn so your back is to the intersection. You will be going under the bridge through an arched area. Follow the road as it curves a little until you get to the first intersection. Make a right turn. Once you have turned there is a playground and some blue rental bikes on the right side. Go straight.  Keep going straight through the next intersection. After you have crossed there is a blue awning to your left. Right after that blue awning is a building that is really red. Go just past it.  Stop before you get to the green awning that is on the left side. There is a stoop with several stairs and an arched doorway. Touchdown is in the middle on the top stair.  From your starting point, please turn around so that the intersection is behind you, and you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  On your right should be a black shopfront with white letters above the windows, and portraits of faces with glasses in the windows.  On your left should be a silver food cart with a blue and yellow umbrella.

When you are properly situated, just walk straight down the street between these two things, and keep moving straight for a long distance, until you come to another intersection.  When you see an American flag, a dark blue flag, and a purple flag hanging on the left, above a cream-colored wall, you are about halfway there.  

When you get to the intersection, turn to your left.  You should see a row of short white poles on the road up ahead on your right, and a shop on your left with red lettering above its windows.  Walk just a short distance onto this street, and stop when you are standing next to the first pair of curved white arrows on the road surface on your right, stop and look to the sidewalk on your right.  In front of a storefront with large yellow letters on a dark sign are two newspaper boxes, one yellow and one blue.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the blue box. You're going to want to go with the flow of the traffic. There will be a yellow car in front with a park to the right. Go past the blue bikes and through the intersection. All the way down to the next intersection and take a right. Now you should have scaffolding on your right, and red brick buildings on your left. Go down to the intersection and you should a red truck and behind the red truck is a black and silver fire hydrant. Your touchdown will be the top of that.  turn so you are following traffic down a one way street. There is a green flag on the building on your right. At the 1st intersection take a right, there will be bikes to your left and a fence to your right. At the next light keep straight, and at the second light turn right, you will see a blue building in the distance, head toward it, at the next intersection you come to, take a right, there is a red painted brick building on your right, go straight. On your right is a building with 2 empty flower pots on the stoop, passed that is scaffolding, hanging from the scaffolding is a ladder, the bear is on the last rung of the ladder As you start, you should see a red vending machine on your right. Travel straight down the road until you reach the dead end in front of the large ship and turn right. Go to the first stoplight and turn right.  Go about halfway down the block until you see a red awning on your left. Touchdown is sitting on the top, center, pointy part of the awning. Turn and go in the direction with the traffic. Scaffolding is on the left.Trees on the right. Turn left at the intersection. At the next intersection stop in the middle of it. Look to the right and touchdown is sitting on top of the green garbage can. Follow the flow of traffic down little road.  Keep going until you can turn left.  Do not turn!  Find the picture of a lion to your left.  The bear is on his nose. From your starting point, turn around so that you the shop with the yellow and green awnings is on your right, and a black fire hydrant with a silver cap is on your left.  walk down the street between these two things, and keep walking until you come to an intersection.

Take a right at this intersection.  A store with a yellow sign and a white logo of a bird in flight should be on your right as you walk down this street. Up ahead you should see a large stick-figure drawing on the side of a red building.  

Walk forward into the middle of the intersection and then look for Touchdown right between the eyes of that large stick figure. Orient yourself so the giant building absolutely covered in scaffolding is behind you, and ahead of you on your left is a row of identical green awnings with a logo on them.  Walk forward, straight through the first intersection.  Keep going straight, keeping an eye out for the next intersection.  Stop before you enter the intersection and look slightly to the right.  On the light pole that's also holding the stop light, there is a rectangular sign that's teal and white on the top and white and teal on the bottom.  There's a small teal arrow on the bottom half.  Touchdown is in the middle of that sign. Start out going with the flow of traffic so that you pass a green topped scaffolding on your right.  Turn left at the first intersection you come to, you should walk past food cars on either side of the street.  At the next intersection, turn left again.  There will be scaffolding on your left with colorful arrows.  Follow the street to the intersection and turn left. Head halfway down the street and there should be a red brick building on your left with bars on the windows. Touchdown is sitting on the stoop in front of the door. (Or in the center of the door's window, I had a little trouble placing him.) Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
You should see scaffolding ahead on the right and a pink awning to the left.
Turn left at the next intersection and you should see a bright red business on your left.
At the next intersection turn left again and you will see a large orange/white cone next to a mailbox on your left.  Moving forward, you will want to go until you are almost upon a long row of blue bikes with a fire hydrant across the street.  Touchdown is on the silver cap of this hydrant. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and the orange and white barriers on your right.  Head down this road through an intersection and keep going straight.  You will pass a store with a yellow awning on your right and then some scaffolding on both sides of the street.  Eventually you will get to a sign on the left side on a building that is black with white text and an orange circle with a black arrow pointing into the building.  You will find Touchdown hiding on that orange circle with a black arrow. Turn so all the construction barriers are on your left and there's a dark-colored bridge over the road in front of you.  Move forward, and pass under that bridge.  There's an intersection right under the bridge - turn left there.  Go straight through the first intersection you come to, which is a three-way intersection.  At the next intersection, you'll also be at a three-way.  Stop when you're in the center of the intersection (though you won't have the opportunity to turn at this spot - visually put yourself in the middle). Look on the corner to your right for a closed food truck/cart.  It's red, green, and white (not the yellow cart on the other corner).  Below the red, green, and white cart is a blue crate.  The bear is on that crate.  Orient yourself such that sports courts and murals are on your right. Proceed forward, going through the first intersection. At the next intersection, make a very sharp right turn. Proceed forward and make another right at the next intersection. Stop at the word painted in the road. On your right should be some pictures of food. Touchdown is centered on the one depicting bread. Move with the flow of traffic to step into the intersection, and turn left. You should be moving with traffic on the smaller road, with the blue bikes ahead of you on the right. Move past the bikes and then continue past scaffolding and a bus parking area. At the next intersection, take a left. 
Move past the blue and yellow umbrella to your right and stop. Turn around toward the umbrella, and there is an orange cylinder. Touchdown is on top of it. Turn so the hydrant with the silver cap is just ahead on the left. Then there is a large yellow parking area. Go down this road, following the curve around to the right. When you finally get to the street light turn right. The median will be on your left and brick building with greenery in front of it to your right.

Move forward until you get to the crosswalk that's up ahead, but stop before you get to it. Turn to your right and on the window there is a green circle with a mermaid on it. It's the logo for a popular company. Touchdown is in the center of that logo. turn so that you are moving with the flow of traffic and head to the first intersection and take a right 
at the next intersection take another right
take 4 steps and on your left is a theater with fancy ornate gold posters 
one of the posters is blue with white lettering it has a barricade placed in front of it 
touchdown is sitting at foot of this barricade closest to you  Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Head to the nearest intersection.  Turn left, then take the next left.  At the next intersection, turn left and take a small step forward.  At this corner there is a red lighted hand signal on the pole.  The bear is on it.   Orient yourself so that there is a red brick building with lots of fire escapes on it to your right.  Go through the pedestrian crosswalk stoplight and stop at the first intersection.  Turn left.  There will be a raised highway up ahead of you.  Cross under this highway then stop at the first intersection you encounter after crossing under it.  To your right will be a red awning with white lettering.  There is an off-white circular sign outlined in green hanging off the end of this awning.  Touchdown is sitting in front of this circular sign.  Position yourself so there is black fencing to your left and two benches in front of a business on your right. Go to the traffic light just ahead, and turn left. 

At the next intersection, turn left again. After you turn, you'll be going down a narrow one lane street under heavy construction. 

When you get to the next intersection there will be flowers for sale at a store on your right. Turn left at this traffic light, and then make one more final left turn at the following intersection.  Just after you turn, there will be a black fire hydrant with a silver cap on your right. Touchdown is sitting on top of that fire hydrant.  move with traffic, there is a red awning on the right, move forward, go through the 1st intersection through 2 orange metal gates. At the next intersection, it bends toward the right, take the right. There is a restaurant with red chairs on the corner to your right. Move into the intersection and take a left, there is a store front with red awnings and a yellow potted plant on the ground in front of the window, the bear is sitting on the plant. Standing in the middle of the intersection, go down the street that has the tall skinny spire on the building in the distance, straight ahead. Get in the right lane when you can, and go right at the first intersection. The windows on the building to your right are rounded on top. Go right at the next intersection. There will be a basketball court on your left. Past the court, stop just before going all the way past the grassy area after the court. Turn to look at the building on your right. You should be standing in front of a small 1/2 circle awning that is white, green and yellow. Touchdown is in the center of the circular design at the top of that awning.  From your starting point, turn around so that the lion statues are on your right.  Walk up the street, and stop in the middle of the intersection.  Turn to your left, so that a red brick building is on your right, and walk up that street

Walk forward, and stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to.  Turn to your left, and you should see an orange mural with two stick figures on the wall on the right-hand sidewalk.  Walk down this road, keeping the mural on your right.  

It will now be a long straight walk.  When you pass an empty lot, behind chain link fencing, you are halfway there, so just go straight through the intersection that comes after that empty lot.  Keep the green building with the metal shutters on your right.  

Go forward a bit further.  You will see a white building with a large movie poster on its wall at street level.  Go just past that poster, and you will see a decorative red tassel hanging from a street lamp on your right.  

Touchdown the Bear is sitting right at the very top of that red tassel. Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that the small orange construction barrier is to your right.

2. Follow the flow of traffic to the first intersection, and take a right. A large parking lot should be to your right and a black storefront should be to your left.

3. Stop once you're in the middle of the next intersection. At the corner on the right, you should see a dark green trashcan with an orange, diamond-shaped sign above it. Touchdown is in the middle of that sign.

Good luck! :) Turn so the red awning are on the right of you. Go straight. At the light take a right. Go straight through the next intersection. At the next intersection take a right. You will see some colorful signs on the right of you. Go straight down this road. At the next intersection take a right. You will pass a yellow awning on the right side of the street. Stop when you see a black bike leaning against a post on the left side of the street. Touchdown is sitting on the seat of this bike. Turn so the scaffolding is on your left and follow traffic to the intersection and go right.  Go right again at the next intersection.

Follow the road past the red building to your right, until you are standing directly in front of a building with two columns of rough bricks on smooth bases and a glass facade.  As you're facing this building, you'll see a red metal inset to the right of the first column, in the wall. 

The touchdown is glued to that red metal square. With scaffolding to your left, go to the corner and turn left. 

With scaffolding still on your left, go to the next corner and turn left. 

Again, when you turn scaffolding is on your left. Go to the next corner. Before you go into the intersection, look to your left and there are two black signs with arrows on them. Touchdown is at the point of the arrow on the top sign. Turn so the fence is to your left and follow traffic to the junction. Go right, and when you reach the next junction, go right again.

You should see columns with bases painted bright yellow to your right, and the road going under a building in front of you.  Walk forward, until you see on your left two orange fence sections flanking the side of an opening containing two hydrants and a rusted metal pole.  Walk just past it, and the shuttered window on the yellow wall, and as you're looking left, you should be standing directly in front of some electrical metal work on the wall (to the right of that last shuttered window, in this section)

Touchdown is stuck to metal electrical junction box (about in line with the bottom of the shutters to the left of it) Begin moving with the flow of traffic. An empty bike rental station will be on your right. At the traffic light just up ahead, turn left. You'll now have a market on your left with fresh fruit for sale on the sidewalk. 

At the next intersection, turn left again. A park will be on your right. A short distance ahead there is an off-white building on your left with green trim around an arched door. A few steps after, you'll see a bright green folding chair leaning up against the building. Touchdown is sitting on that chair.  With that tall green wall on your left and going with the flow of traffic, go straight.  You will go straight through the first intersection and go all the way down to the next intersection. You'll have green awning on your left.  Touchdown will be on top of the trashcan on the left corner in front of the building with green awnings. Turn and go in the same direction as the traffic. A red awning will be on the left. Turn left at the next intersection. There is a bright blue store front on the right. Turn left at next intersection. There are some green awnings to the right. On the right side there will be 3 round top doors trimmed in yellow. Touchdown is sitting on the light at the top of the first doorway.  Turn so you are on the verge of entering the intersection.  Go left. This is a small one way street, and there is a building on your left with a gray first story and a white second story. Walk ahead. Go left at the next intersection. There should be a red lane of traffic to your right with white words.  Go straight ahead. Go left at the next intersection. There is a storefront with a blue awning immediately to your right. Walk past it and turn around to look down the street you just came from.  See a small black sign with a white number and yellow crown on the building to your right. Touchdown is sitting right on top of the middle prong of the crown. Turn to follow traffic down the one way street where you can see black banners hanging from the building on the left and smaller black door signs jutting out on the right.  Go straight through the first intersection and turn right at the next one.

Go straight, through the next intersection you encounter, and look for an angled light green overhang ahead to your right. Walk until you're directly in front of the first green overhang, which will have steel security doors scrawled with red graffiti.

Turn to your left, and you should see two vendor carts, between which is a weird looking street lamp with an amber and green sphere at the top.  It's the only such light on the street.

Touchdown is sitting on the green top of the sphere.
 Should position yourself in the same direction as the park vehicles. Follow the road till you arrive at the intersection in which you want to make a left turn. Keep on moving forward till you notice another traffic light and make a left turn at the intersection. Follow the road passing the blue fence and park on your left. You should be near the building where you notice some people unloading baskets from a truck into a red brick building. The building to the right of it on your right has a window with an air conditioner hanging out. The touchdown is sitting on top of the air conditioner. Turn so you going the right way down this one way street. Go straight. 
At the intersection take a right. Pass through the first intersection you come to. At the next light take a right turn. You will see a building on the right with lots of columns. Go straight ahead. Stop before the building on the right with the brick archway around a black door. There is a sign with red, blue, and green neon on it. Touch down is in front of the street sign on the pole to the left of this sign. 
 
 Orient yourself in the direction of the parked cars. Go straight until reaching the intersection with lots of orange construction cylinders on the left and right. Take a left here. Go straight through the intersection that has a black fire hydrant on the right side. Stop when you see a store with a hanging string of decorations to the left. Touchdown is in the window of this store. From your starting point, please turn around so that the construction zone is behind you.  You should see a parked motorcycle, under a black and gray cover, right in front of you.  Walk down this narrow street, with that motorcycle on your right, and then just keep going straight for a while.  

Walk straight through the first intersection you come to.  The street on the other side will have scaffolding on the left, and a green storefront with large windows on the right.  
Walk up this street and go straight past the side street that appears on your right.   A dark red/maroon awning with gold letters should still be on your right as you pass.  Walk forward a short distance further, and take a left at the large intersection.  There should be a silver food cart on the right-hand sidewalk as you proceed.  

Walk down this street.  Ignore the alley on your left, walk past the two gold flags on the building on your left, and walk into the large four-way intersection ahead of you.  

In the intersection, you will see brick or cobblestone roads on your left and your right, and a paved road with white lane lines up ahead of you.  Take one more step forward, toward the paved road, but stop before you step onto the crosswalk.

Look to the left-hand sidewalk up ahead.  In front of a red building with large windows is a black fire hydrant with a silver cap, next to a white trash bag.  Touchdown is sitting right on top of this hydrant.   Turn so you are going with traffic. Go straight down this street. At the light take a left. Go straight. You will pass some planters in the median. Go straight at the light. At the next light go straight again. Stop just before the crosswalk at the light. Look to your left. There are several red awnings. Touchdown is sitting on the white dot in the design of the awning on the most right.   Head the correct way down this street so that orange and white barriers are on the left side. At the first intersection keep going straight. At the next intersection make a right turn. There will be dirty green awnings on the right side. You'll go straight through a stop light that is for a 3 way intersection. You'll be stopping before the next intersection. Go past a long black awning that goes out to the street on the right side. After that you'll see a long blue awning that also goes out to the street on the right. Stop when you are exactly next to that. Turn and look to the right. You should see the end of that awning and some pink in a window next to it. Touchdown is in the middle of the front of that blue awning.  Face the direction of traffic. There will be a dark gray building on your left. Go straight to the first intersection. There will be a red graffiti wall on your left. Take a left at this intersection. There will be a large white brick building on your left and a red one next to it. Go to your first intersection and go straight through the intersection so the playground is to your left and the building with black window awnings on your right. Hit your right arrow and look to your left. At the playground there are two archways that are bright blue. Touchdown is on the front of the shorter archway.  Stand so you are moving with traffic. Move straight for awhile until you reach an intersection, and go right. Move forward a bit, and on your left is a blue store awning with yellow writing (above it is a faded blue store sign). Touchdown is the center of the blue awning. Orient yourself with traffic and proceed forward. Go through the first and second intersections then turn left at the third. Proceed forward. Stop when the left wall becomes diamond patterned. A wood pallet leans against a pole. Touchdown is at the bottom of the pallet, in the center. Turn so the park with the black iron fence is on your left, and go forward.  Go straight through the intersection that's just ahead of you.  At the next intersection, turn left.  
You'll be on a narrow street with orange and white construction barriers and green fencing along the right, and construction scaffolding over the sidewalk on the left.  Go one short block to an intersection, and make another left.
Now you'll have construction scaffolding on the left, and a large stone building with round carvings on either side of the doorway on your right.  Go straight through one intersection, and you'll then have orange construction barriers on the right.  On your left is a small park area.  Move forward and stop just before you're even with the area where the fence curves away from you and the sidewalk widens to an area with some benches and tables.  You'll have a patch of green bushes directly next to you when you stop, and you won't yet be to the first bench of the sidewalk area.  The bear is sitting on the bench closest to you. Follow traffic to the light and go right. Go right again at the next light.  At the end of that block, where a subway entrance will be on your left, when you reach the stop signs, go right.

Now subway entrances surrounded by green rails are on both sides of you, and a green stripe is on the road to your left. Go forward so you're even with the entrance to the subways.

Rotate right. Touchdown is on the globe light with the green top directly in front of you on the pole to the right of the descending steps into the subway. Move with traffic, go straight through 3 intersections, at the 1st is a red store front, at the second there is a large star on the storefront, at the 3rd there is another red store front. Just after that last intersection is a store on the right with a purple flag with a yellow square in the center, the bear is on that square Turn and position yourself where the bridge is to your right. And you are sitting at a red light. You will go straight thru the red light and then you will take the second left right past this intersection. Then construction will be to the right. At the next intersection turn left and you will go straight thru a tunnel. In the tunnel on the left is a red sign with white on it. Touch down is on the sign. Orient yourself so you are facing against the flow of traffic with the trees in the median to your right. Move forward and you will immediately come to a three-way intersection. Move back into the left. Reorient yourself so the building with black awnings is on your right  and the red brick building is on your left. Continue forward to the next intersection and take a right.  You should pass some orange and white construction barriers on your left just before you reach the intersection. Once you turn right you should see a red brick building on your right with two flags hanging from it. Continue forward to the next intersection and take another right.  you should see a weathered green railing on your right in front of a red brick building. Continue forward to the next intersection and take another right. You should be facing against the flow of traffic with trees in a median to your right and a blue mailbox on your left. Move forward so that you are nearly in line with the first tree on your right. Stop and turn to your right, Touchdown is sitting at the base of the tree in front of you. With the glastraight entrance to your right, go straight and take the first right.  Take another right. Go straight past a cement truck to your left. continue until reaching some bright blue signs to your left. when parallel with the vertical sign, look left. Touchdown is on top of the vertical sign. Turn so the green wall is to your right and buildings with planters in front of them to your left. Go to the corner and turn right.

Go down this road a bit and turn right at your first opportunity. When you turn there will be trees on the left with bikes parked between them a bit.

Go down to the next corner and turn right. The median with trees is on your left. 

Go down to the next intersection. As you are in the middle of the intersection, look to your left and you will see 3 bell shaped things. There is a single one, then behind it are two more. Touchdown is on top of the single one.

 With the red building and then park to the left, to to the light. Go right. Hedgerows will be to the left,  the store with the red sign band with a red, yellow and green pinwheel will be to the right.  Stop when even with the window on the right with the turkey. 

Touchdown is in the basket to the right of the cornucopia in the store window. At the intersection, orient yourself so the rainbow flag banners are on your left and the bank with the blue awnings is on your right. Proceed straight one pace, use the left arrow one pace, then stay to the left of the street as it divides. The green scaffolding should be on your left and a low wrought iron fence on your right. There are two bicycles tied to signs on the right side of the street. Proceed straight past one three-way intersection and over a speed bump. At the next intersection, turn left. Turn left again at the next intersection so there is a diner with a subway entrance on your right. Proceed down the street until you pass the police cars and approach a couple shopping carts completely full of trash bags on your left. Touchdown is on the blue trash bag.  Align yourself with the flow of traffic. The single traffic cone should be on your left. Ignore the first right, Head to the intersection and make a right. Shortly after, make another right. You should see a food truck ahead on your left with a green umbrella. Touchdown is on the white middle part of the green  umbrella. Turn yourself so you are facing the flow of traffic. 
Go straight through the first intersection. At the second intersection, turn right. 
Go straight for awhile until you reach an intersection. At this intersection, turn right. 
Go straight just a little and look for an orange sign on the left side of the road on the sidewalk. Just past this sign, you will see three archways on a building, on the left side of the road. Just before these archways, there is a circle on the building with a light inside the circle. Touchdown is sitting on this circle.  Follow traffic to the light and go right. Go right again at the next light.  You'll pass scaffolding on your right about halfway down the block and then come to a stretch with k-walls on each side.  When you're even with the last orange k-wall on your left,  rotate right.   Touchdown is centered atop the green pipe with siamese discharge connectors, to the left of the similar red one. You're beginning right in the center of an intersection, so you need to turn until you're lined up with a white building with tall black arched window trims and bright red signs is on your left. Go ahead and move out of the intersection and past that white building. 

You're going to travel down this long block and stop right at the crosswalk of the next intersection. Look to your left, and there's an orange diamond-shaped sign with black writing between the bike lane and parked vehicles. Touchdown is right in the center of that orange sign.  If you are in the correct position to your left is a black fence with several trees inside of it. To your right is a store with a green awning with white letters. Please head straight on the street so you reach the intersection. At this point you must veer to the right. If you veered on the right street you will see to your left there is a brick building that is red colored beside a white brick colored building of stone finish on the bottom and arched windows.
Go through the next intersection straight past the building with the maroon awning with the white and yellow letters.
Continue through the next intersection where you have the option to backtrack to your left. If you pass that properly there will be a basketball court to your left.
Please continue straight through the next intersection.
You will notice after walking a little bit there is a big line of orange traffic cones on your left. And on the right is a parking lot with a fence with razor wire around it. There is also orange and white striped barriers on the left and besides those is orange and white barrel touchdown is sitting directly on top of that barrel. Face the flow of the traffic with the scaffolding to your right. GO straight until you get to the end of the block with the blue hexagon logo on the building to your right. Make a right on that corner and go to the end of the block where you see a black store awning on your left and a red store awning on your right. Make a right at that traffic light and go to the end of the block. Stop just before the traffic  light at the solid white line. Look to your right and you will see a green rectangle sign on a pole in front of the restaurant. Touchdown will be in the center of the green sign. So you're going to want to go with the flow of the traffic. You need to be behind the yellow car. Follow this road and you're going to go right through the first intersection and keep going and there will be a small road that you need to take a right on. It will have an orange construction sign on it. You should continue down this road until there are bags of trash on your right. Your touchdown will be the white part on the blue sack.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and the silver posts are on your left.
Turn left at the first intersection.  You should see some yellow retaining fences on the left ahead of you.
Go straight through the first intersection and turn left at the one after that.
You will now have a red awning with yellow writing on the left and a painted city scape high up on the right side.
Go past the parking lot on the right.  Stop when you're next to a darker building with white text in it's name and a round logo with yellow, blue, red and white on it.
Just in front of that is a small blue round sign on a post.  Touchdown is on this sign. Turn so you are going the correct direction on this one way street. At the first intersection make a left turn. Go only a short distance so you have not crossed the crosswalk yet. On your right are a few green trash bags and 2 green trash bins. Touchdown is on top of the orange box next to those.  Orient yourself so that you are facing the traffic flow. Move forward to the first intersection. Take a right at the intersection. Move forward until you reach the next intersection and take another right turn. On your right, you should see a person on a scooter in front of a fence with flowers. Move forward to the next intersection. On the right-hand corner in front of you, you will see a man wearing black pants, a gray shirt and a black backpack. Behind him is a trashcan and a bike. Touchdown is in front of the trashcan. Get turned around to where the green covered scaffolding is to your right side. At the intersection turn right. The same scaffolding wraps around the corner and will still be to the right. Go straight to the next intersection. Turn right again. Go straight one block and then make another right turn. Once you turn the corner building on the left has a green awning and on the right corner there is red. Go straight past a low and long dumpster on the right side. There is scaffolding next to that. Go until you reach the end of that scaffolding then stop. There is a ladder leaning against it. Touchdown is on the ground up against that ladder. Turn so the scaffolding is on your right. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left. The should wrap you around the red wedge building. Go down this street to the next four way intersection. Do not take the right before that. When you get to the intersection take the left diagonal branch. This should keep the white sculpture seating area to your right. Walk past this area along the yellow trees to your right and stop before the next intersection before the last tree. There should be a black fire hydrant to your right past the tree between two red posts. Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant. With the green scaffolding to your left, go straight and take a right. At the following intersection, take a right again. Go past some a rental bike station on the left and construction. When you near the next intersection, there should be a store to the left with paper covering the windows. Touchdown is on the middle of the white paper backed window. Hello. You will be standing in the center of a four-way intersection. Please orient yourself facing the middle of the intersection. You will see a red brick building with green accents and white letters to your left side. To your right side, there will be a building with long white stone columns and a sign with white letters and a red apple.

Walk forward to the next four-way intersection. Go straight through it. There will be scaffolding with green awning to your right side as you continue forward on this path. 

When you reach the next four-way intersection, go straight again. 

There will be blue scaffolding with green and wooden striped awning on your right side.

Walk forward to the next four-way intersection. Turn left.

There will be a red brick building with some flags ahead on your right side as you walk forward. Slow down as you reach the flags. There will be some green scaffolding on your left side. Keep going slowly.

To your left side, you will approach a white delivery truck with the back door open. There will be lots of clear trashbags nearby and boxes unloaded. There are purple and green letters on the side of the truck. Please stop when you are standing just beyond this white truck.

Look down at the front wheel of this white delivery truck closest to you. 
Touchdown will be in the middle of the front wheel. Good luck! Turn and go in the same direction of the traffic. Scaffolding to the right. Turn right at intersection. Tan an black buildings on both sides. Go straight thru next intersection and stop. Look to the left and there is a red box and touchdown is sitting on top.  Turn so there is building with a red wavy stripe on your right. Head down that street in the direction of traffic. Take a left in front of the building with the bright green sign in front of it. Head down this street and pass straight through the first intersection you come to. Take a right in front of the building with the big blue sign on it. It also has a smaller burgundy sign above the doors.Stop when you see the brown delivery truck parked on the left. Touchdown is sitting on top of the plastic wrapped pallet in front of the building in green on the right. Align yourself with traffic and walk down the road until you come to an intersection. Take a right at the intersection. Walk forward until you get to the next intersection. Touchdown is in the  middle of a manhole cover in the road leading in to the intersection.  Turn so you are going the same way as traffic. There is a blue fence on the left ahead. When you reach the intersection go right. At the next intersection go into the middle of it then stop. You should see a grassy fenced area on the left. Right next to you on the left is an orange barrel that is not on the crosswalk Touchdown is on top of that barrel.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
You should see scaffolding on your left and orange fence netting on the right.
Turn right at the next intersection and you will have a long green awning on the right.
Turn right at the next intersection which should put a blue storefront on your right
and trees down the road.
Go straight and you should see scaffolding ahead on the right.
Keep going and eventually you should get to the next intersection.
Once there you should notice a green trash bin across the street next to a yellow newspaper box on the right corner below a white awning.  Touchdown is on the yellow newspaper box. Going with the flow of traffic, proceed to the intersection and take left.  There should be some blue scaffolding on your right hand side, take a left here.  You should now have a tall solid green fence on you right hand side, go straight to the next intersection and take a left.  There's a bunch of scaffolding on the left hand side, go straight.  Pass the first intersection you come across. You will pass mail trucks parked on both sides of the road.  Touchdown is hiding on the manhole in front of the mail truck on the left and directly behind the blue and white van that's also parked. Orient yourself with the temporary chain link fence to your right. Move forward into the intersection and turn right. Pass the mural on your right, and then at the next intersection turn right again. Pass the yellow and white umbrella on your right, then a pink storefront with flowers. At the next intersection, turn right. Stop just before reaching the next intersection. At the start of the crosswalk, there is an orange cylinder in the middle of the road. Touchdown is on top of that cylinder. If you are in the correct position you should see a store with glass windows on your right with a green staircase going underground beside it.
To your left should be a store sitting on the corner with red trim around the doors has white letters on it and to air-conditioners above the door. Once you are in the correct position head straight.
To verify your on the correct road you should be passing a white building with red arched doors and a black fence surrounding it on your right.
Go to the first intersection and make a left turn.
Now cross through two intersections and continue straight. If you are in the correct place you should be passing a building that is read and has lights on the side. This building will be to your right. It also has blue tables out front. They are behind a yellow barrier.
After walking a little further you will have the option to remain straight or turn left, you want to remain straight.
A very short distance later to your left you will see a store selling ladies clothing in the window. Directly beside that is a blue door. Touchstone is sitting directly in front of the blue door on the ground.
 Go forward a little more and turn right onto the main road.  Go forward to the next intersection (Just before blue bridge).  Turn left down little ally.  There is a little fruit/snack vendor on your left.  Keep going forward.  Turn left at the end of the ally.  Go to the next intersection and turn left.  Walk against the flow of traffic into the next intersection.  When in the middle of the intersection, find the first blue rental bike.  The bear is on the seat.   If you are in the correct position you will notice orange construction barriers on your right. There also be a bridge to your left. Please head straight. As you are moving forward you will notice on your right side there are now orange and white construction barriers and on the left the bridge is going high. Continue straight and cross through the first two intersections. When you come to the third intersection please turn right. There should be a brick wall that is about 6 foot high. Beside that is a white brick building which has trees in front of it. These are on your right. Touchdown is sitting directly in front of the first tree. He is on the sidewalk. Turn so there is an intersection right in front of you. There is a large orange brick building on the left front corner. Turn right at this intersection, after turning there will be a large stone building on the left and a black chain link fence surrounding a sport filed on the right side. Continue down this street, until you pass the basketball court on the right side. On the left side is a green pole with a red square sign. The Touchdwon is on the green pole under the red sign.  Turn and go through this tunnel in the same direction as traffic. Go left at the intersection. The bridge will be along the street to your left. Go left at the next intersection, under the bridge. Once through, go left at the intersection.  Again, the bridge should be along the road to your left. Enter the middle of the next intersection and stop. There will be a sign ahead on your left with three colored circles. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the green circle.  Orient yourself to follow the flow of traffic. Continue through the first intersection and then turn right at the second intersection. Stop when you reach another intersection. You should see a shop with a green awning on your left. The touchdown is on the round symbol on the awning.  Move with traffic; there will be a subway entrance ahead on your left.  At the first intersection turn left.  You should now see a red painted lane in the road on both sides.  Go to the first intersection again and turn left.  Now there will be a park on your left.  Pass through two three-way intersections with roads on the right.  The park is still on your left.  On your right will be scaffolding.  Near the end of the scaffolding will be a blue mailbox near the curb.  Touchdown is sitting under the mailbox. Turn to go with the flow of traffic and a red canopy over a store is to your left. Turn left at the next corner. Go to the next corner and turn left, going with traffic flow. Go to the next corner and go left. There will be a red sign, then a black sign, then a green sign on your right. Go down a bit to where a red flag is hanging out over the sidewalk on the right before the next intersection. There are metal garage type doors on the right as well. Turn to your right a bit and notice a gray pole with a blue stripe on top of it. Touchdown is on top of that pole. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic with the green building on your right.  You will need to step into the intersection then go forward.
Turn right at the next intersection when you're looking at a wall covered in car graffiti.
Once you make that turn, you should see scaffolding ahead on the right.
Turn right at the next intersection.  You should immediately see an orange barrier on your left and some orange/white barrier cones on the street.

Turn right at the next intersection when you see a large pink triangle in the window ahead on the right.

Go forward until you're next to the fire hydrant on the right.  Touchdown is on the top of the hydrant.
 Turn and follow the flow of traffic.  Go through one intersection, and take the next left.  Then take the next right.  Once you make the right, stop.  Look right.  There is a bright orange diamond shaped sign.  The bear is in the middle.   Orient yourself so that the 2 flags are on your left. Move forward to the first intersection and turn left. At the next intersection, turn left again. Now on your right corner is a red and white striped awning. Continue until you reach the start of a construction section on your right.  Soon on your left is a small brown closed garage door in the middle of the brick wall. Touchdown is on the center of the white sign on the door. position yourself so you are following the traffic direction. You will see the green sign with yellow writing on the right side of the road. Go with the traffic, pass the 1st intersection you see. Continue going forward. you will see a brown delivery truck with 3 letter name logo on the back parked on the right side of the street. Continue going forward. You will see a van with green color and white/gold tile patter on it. Go pass that van, pass the white van in front of it, and pass the dark blue van in front of the white van. You will see a green store with American flag above the door. The store has some clown paintings on the windows. The touch down is on the american flag, the white/red strips part.   Turn and go in the same direction as the traffic. A playground will be to your left. Go straight at the next 2 intersections. Another playground to your right. Before you get to the next intersection you will see a phone booth on your left and touchdown is sitting on top.  Turn so you are going the same direction of the traffic down a brick street. There should be black columns on the left corner of the building and tan columns on the right side. Continue down this street, you will pass by bright cream/yellow buildings that are on both sides of the street. Go straight past the next intersection, there will be scaffolding on the left side of the street. At the next intersection turn right. There will be a median with greenery on your left side. Before the next intersection, there's a bench at the end of the greenery in the median. The Touchdown is on the edge of the bench  Turn so the big intersection is behind you. There should be a small section of white building with white pillars to your right. Go straight ahead. Turn right at the next intersection. You will see tall blue scaffolding on the building ahead to the right. Go right at the next intersection. You will pass a window outlined with red decor on your right. As you enter the next intersection, you may get disoriented. Turn so that a storefront full of farmer's jeans is to your right, and go straight across the intersection, onto a narrow one way street. See white fancy pillars along a building ahead to the right.You will soon come upon a section of gray pillars after the white ones. Stand and face the entrance to that gray building. It will have a picture of a person in the window left of the door, and colorful sheets of paper to the right of the door. Touchdown is sitting right on top of the head of the painted person.  Start by traveling in the same direction as the cars. Take the first right at the green trash can next to the phone booth. Follow that street to the intersection and take a right. Stop when there is a long row of chairs to your right. You will see a man sitting in one of the chairs reading a book. Touchdown is on the book.  Orient yourself so that you are headed towards the building with the clock on it.  Don't go forwards all the way to that building.  Instead, turn right at the first intersection, down the one way street.  Go forward for one block and again turn right at the lights.  Move forward one block and turn right again.  This street should have some scaffolding on your left side.  Go partway down the street and stop just after the scaffolding ends and there is a brick building on your left.  Along this brick building next to the main entrance is a small black awning with a red dot over a another doorway.  Touchdown bear is on the red dot in the awning.   Orient yourself to follow the flow of traffic and go forward, turning right at the first intersection. Go forward until you get to the next intersection which has a deli/grocery store on the right and turn right. You will pass some buses on the left and the reach an intersection. Turn right at the intersection. Stop before the next intersection. There will be a bike parked on your left. The touchdown is in the center of the bike's front wheel.  Face the flow of traffic, you should have a yellow bus on your right.

Go through the 3-way intersection.  At the next intersection (4-way), turn left.

Once you do you'll see a pile of white trash bags on your left, go forward.

At the next intersection turn left, you should see a green awning on your right and buses on the left once you do.

Go forward until you are between two white SUVs.

Turn left and you'll see what looks like a fruit symbol on a food location.

Touchdown is on this symbol. Turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street. There should be a yellow van directly in front of you.  Walk forward and stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to.  Turn to your right, so that you see two white vans with blue lettering, and then start walking toward them.  Continue down this road.  It will be a long, straight walk, with no intersections. If you pass a shop with a purple sign and awning, you are on the right track.  You should see a red van parked on the right side of the street, and then some white and orange barricades around a construction area on the right.  Walk to the end of the row of barricades, but stop when you see a man in a white hardhat, standing behind a chain-link fence.  You should see Touchdown sitting right on top of his hardhat.   Go in the same direction as traffic and turn left at the first intersection. Go left again at the next one. The corner store on your right will have green and white signs. Just past the vertical neon red letters high on your left, see a green awning next to an orange one. Just down from those, see a storefront door surrounded by pink. Stop just past it and turn to look at it. Find the picture of a girl on the top right corner of that pink surrounding. Touchdown is sitting on top of her head.  Turn so you'll be walking in the same direction as the traffic goes on this one-way street.  Go to the intersection right in front of you and turn right.  Go straight through one intersection, and turn right at the next intersection.  After you turn, you'll pass one building with a blue and white painting in the windows, then a boring storefront, and then the next building has a turquoise colored front.  Stop when you're even with the turquoise store.  There's an air conditioner just over this store.  The bear is in the center of the air conditioner.   Orient yourself with traffic and proceed. Stop just before the far crosswalk of the first intersection. Ahead next to a public share bike rack is a charging terminal. Touchdown is on the green symbol on its screen. Orient yourself so that the brown building with brown awnings is on your right and gray building with blue logos is on your left. Go down this street and make a left at the first intersection. There will now be multiple newspaper boxes in different colors to your left. Follow the traffic down this street, passing an intersection and stopping before reaching the big, white stone arch with the statues up ahead. On your right, you will see a brown building attached to a white building. There is a garden in between both buildings. Touchdown is on the flowers, that are on the black pedestal, which is surrounded by a circle of small plants. Orient yourself so the traffic light is just ahead and there is a large green wall to the right just past the traffic light.

Travel straight through this intersection passing that green wall and arrive at the next traffic light. Turn left here onto this one way street. After turning you will see a series of red awnings to your left.

Travel straight down this street to the next intersection. At the Intersection Turn Left. You will probably be facing against traffic, that's fine. there are black awnings to your right , grey and brown to the left, travel straight ahead to the next corner and stop on the crosswalk.

Rotate left and see a green metal trash can on the corner, Touchdown is sitting on top of it.



 Turn yourself so that you are going with the flow of traffic. This is a one way street. Go straight down this road until you reach the first intersection. Make a left turn. There should be a building with a green awning on your right. You will go straight down this road until you reach the first traffic light. At this traffic light turn left. On your left you will see a red and white striped awning. Go to the next traffic light and make another left turn. There will be a brown building on your right. The windows have bars on them. Be looking to your left and you will see a white brick building and a green door with a black awning over it. Right past the black awning there is a building that is brown on the bottom and red brick on the top. The building has white balconies. There is an air conditioning unit in the first window of that building, and Touchdown is sitting on the air conditioning unit.  Turn so the fencing is on your left. 
Go to the next intersection and turn right. When you turn there is a green building with silvery garage type doors to your right.
Go to the next intersection and turn right. 
Go to where a street goes to the right and turn right there. When you turn you will have a building that is red brick on the top and black on the bottom to your right. Continue forward to the next intersection and turn right. When you turn you will see a red fire escape on the building to the right. Touchdown is at the bottom of the stairs on the fire escape. Turn so that the white buildings are behind you. You should be looking down a tree lined street with a brick building to your left. Walk forward down this street to the next intersection and turn right. There should be a line of trees on both sides of the street. A green store should be on the corner to your right. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. There should be flowers on top of white brick work to the front right of you. Walk down the street past the playground on the left. Stop once you pass a small black fire hydrant between garbage bags on your left. Facing the garbage bags you should see a black container sitting at the top of some step. Touchdown is in the crate. Turn so you're facing in the direction of traffic. Walk past the scaffolding on the right to the end of the block. Turn left.

Walk to the end of the short block and turn left one last time. Now you'll have scaffolding on your right. After the scaffolding, you'll pass a green, blue and white moving van on the right. After that, look to the left. You'll see a white parking sign with red writing. Touchdown is on that sign.



 Go with the flow of traffic to the next corner and turn right.

Again, go with the flow of traffic to the next corner and turn right.

Go with traffic just about to the end of the red awning on the right. 

Turn to your left to see a gray square pole with a blue stripe at the top. Touchdown is on top of that square pole.



 Orient yourself so on an overpass ahead there are two green signs and one red sign.  Begin walking forward.  You'll go under the overpass, and then through a tunnel.  As soon as you exit the tunnel, you're at an intersection, where you'll turn right.  Walk down this road towards the next intersection and stop just before you enter it.  Look to your right (it may be a little behind you at this point) for a black fire hydrant between two short red poles that has an orange and white construction barrel next to it.  Touchdown is on top of the black fire hydrant. Orient yourself so you are going with the flow of traffic down the one way street. Go straight until you come to the first intersection.  Turn left.  After you turn, you should see green and silver scaffolding on your left and a big white and glass garage door on your right.  Go straight a short distance until you come an intersection.  Just before you get to the intersection, you should see an orange barrel on the sidewalk on your left. Touchdown is sitting on top of the orange barrel. Start by positioning yourself in such a way that you have bus sop to your right then walk to the intersection and immediately turn right. Walk till you reach another intersection and then again turn right.Keep walking until you see a school with four doors right next to each other on your left, when you get there stop. Touchdown is sitting on the blue sticker under the sign for the building.  Position yourself with traffic and go until you get to the intersection. Take a left. There should be green scaffolding on the right and a brownish sign with white lettering on the left. Look left and you will see a lit up sign that is a hand. That is your touchdown.  Turn to face the side street so the orange building with green awning is to your left, and an iron fenced playground is to your right. Go with traffic. When you finally get to the next intersection, go right. There is immediately a pink flag with a cup of coffee on the building to your right. At the next intersection, go right, passing a flower shop on your left. A short ways down the street, see the blue sign with a red garage door beneath it on your left. Stop in front of the red door to the left of it, and see Touchdown in the middle of the red/white checkered sign on that door.  Orient in the direction of the big intersection and take an immediate left. Go straight and take another left at the next intersection. Go past the intersection with lots of parked cars and then take a left after the building with red columns. Go to the next intersection and take a left. Touchdown is on the red hand to the left. Orient yourself so that there is a dark brown/black building with tons of windows on your right, and a juice bar with a blue neon sign on the left. Go straight here, past all the construction and make a left at the first intersection. About a block away make another left at the the next intersection. You will see treea with pretty purple lights on your right hand side.  there is also a green pole with a white and red sign next to them. The touch down is located on the white and red sign. Turn so you are going with traffic and the intersection is at your back. Go straight until you get to the next intersection. Go straight but stop just before the crosswalk on the opposite side of the street. Touchdown is sitting on top of the trashcan to your right that is to the right of the traffic light post.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and the chain link fence on your right.  Turn right at the next intersection.  Pass by some barriers on your way to the next intersection and turn right, but not onto the main road.  Take the small lane to the right of it that has orange barriers all the way down.  You will pass a yellow diamond shaped sign on the left as you go down the ramp.
Stop right in the middle of the overpass ahead and turn around.  Touchdown is hiding on top of the orange barriers where the two meet. Orient yourself with traffic and proceed. Turn right at the first intersection, then right at the next intersection as well. Pass a vine covered wall on the left. Stop just before a store on the right has its name in red neon. Touchdown is on the top of the sidewalk signboard for this store.. Go in the same direction as traffic.  Move forward to the first intersection.  Turn right.  There will be a store with a red sign and large white letters to your right.  Go to the next intersection and turn right again.  This time there will be red brick building on your right.  Proceed down the street.  Pass the red brick building on your right.  Then on your right, you'll see an orange awning followed by a red awning. Stop when you are almost to the end of the orange awning.  Turn and face this orange awning.  There are two big, black letters on the sloped part of the awning.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the taller letter (the one on the right).
 Orient yourself so that the school playground is on your left and the center planted street divider is on your right.  You may be on the wrong side of the road, headed in the opposite direction to the cars.  Go straight in this direction till you reach the intersection and then turn left.  Go forward and then immediately turn left again.   You should again have the playground on your left and now be headed the correct way down a one way street.  Move down the street, past the parked trailer with all the graffiit, and you will see the entrance to the playground on your left.  There is a white rectangular sign on the right side of the gate.  Touchdown bear is in the middle of that white rectangular sign.   Follow the traffic, with the glass building on your right and make a left at the third intersection. There will be construction and scaffolding on both sides of you. Follow the orange/white barriers/cones on your left, passing the first intersection and stopping before reaching the second one. On your right, there will be scaffolding, three traffic cones on the sidewalk and a pole with a yellow pedestrian sign. Touchdown is on the center of the pedestrian sign. Facing the nearest intersection, go with traffic. Go straight across this intersection. At the next intersection, go right. The store ahead on your right has gold letters. Go right at the next intersection.  The store immediately on your right has silhouettes of dining people in the window. Go straight across the next intersection. Go to the next intersection you come to and stop in the middle. Ahead on your right is a row of green construction wall/fencing. There is a big white sign with red letters at the beginning of that green wall, in front of you. Touchdown is on the left end of the red arrow on the sign.  Position yourself so the green wall is on your left and the intersection is directly in front of you. Move forward through that intersection, and keep going straight. When you get to the next traffic light, turn right. Now, you'll have large white tents on your left.

The tents end at the next intersection. Turn right again there. Go forward and when the scaffolding ends on the right, start looking at the left side of the street. There is a business with a black sign and gold writing that is decorated for the holidays. There are three red ornaments hanging beneath the sign. Touchdown is swinging from the red ornament in the middle of the other two.  Follow the flow of traffic and turn left at the first intersection. Go forward and turn left at the next intersection. You will see construction on your right. The touchdown is on the center of the front wheel of the white van parked before the construction.  Turn around so the scaffolding is up ahead on your right and the barriers with orange fencing are up ahead on the left. Go forward down this road. 

Go straight through the first intersection you come upon that is about a block from where you started. Then about another block down go through the 3-way intersection. As you go through this 3-way, look to your right. There is a tree planted on the right surrounded by a small metal fence. Touchdown is at the bottom of the tree on top of that short fence. Orient yourself so you are facing the same way as the traffic and the brick building with a blue awning is on your left.  Go to the intersection and turn right.  Walk down this road, ignoring the entrance to the park on your left, until the next intersection where you're going to take a right.  Walk down this street, and go straight through the first intersection.  As you near the next intersection, look for a portrait of a man painted on the side of the building on your right.  The man in the portrait is wearing a blue baseball cap with a white logo in the center.  Touchdown is on the white logo. Turn so the flags are on your right.  Follow the flow of traffic down this road and turn left at the first intersection.  You'll see a purple awning on your left as you travel down this road.  At the next intersection turn left.  Follow this road, watching on your left for a red brick building with a pointed arch over the round door.  Touchdown is sitting on the tip of the point above tat door. Face the same direction as the parked cars on the sides of the road. Go straight to the intersection and take a right. You should see trash bags on your left and a little ahead of that there are yellow doors. Touchdown will be on top of the fire hydrant right next to the trash bags.  Follow the direction of the cars, with the green scaffolding on your left. Go forward, following the curve and keep going straight. Make a right with the curve, when you see the blue park structure in front of you. The park is now on your left. Go straight, until you reach the first traffic light and make a right. There is now a park on your right. Keep going forward, stop before you reach the second green awning on your left. Touchdown is on the top of the lamppost just before the green awning with the yellow letters. With the garage to your right, go straight until reaching the first intersection. Take a left. Take another left at the next intersection. Go straight with scaffolding to your left. Continue for a bit. There should be a crooked pole to your left with a white sign on it. Touchdown is on the sign. Align yourself with the flow of traffic so that the red bus lane is on your right. Head to the first left only turn to make a left. There should be a bunch of flowers on your left under an awning after you turn. Head down to the next intersection to make another left. A few steps up, stop after the 3 curved black awnings, and you should be looking at a black door with a gold bottom. In front of the last black awning there should be a hydrant between two poles. Touchdown is sitting on the tip of the hydrant. Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Head to the nearest intersection.  Go left, then take the next left.  Pass the red arch on the right.  Travel a little further, look left.  There is a red building with a staircase that goes down.  It has a glass cover.  Look up, there is a black circle near the right balcony. Go with traffic, with the black fence to your right.  Go left at the light, and stay on the right side of the road, close to the building with the blue awnings. Go straight through the 4-way and then 3-way intersections.  Stop at the stop signs.  Rotate left.  You should be facing a black door with white framing head on.  

Touchdown is atop the small black light center above the door. Align yourself with the red dumpster on your left, and go with the flow of traffic 

head to the intersection, and make a right here. You'll make another right at the next intersection. There should be scaffolding on your left with a hydrant in front after the second right. Touchdown is on top of the red hydrant. Turn so that most of the police cars are on your right side. Go straight until you reach the intersection. Turn left. There is a store on the corner with blue awnings to the right once you turn and  a grey building with a lot of windows on the left. Go one block to the next intersection. Turn left. The buildings on either side have horizontal stripes in the brick. Go forward only a very short distance. On the right side there is a door that has 1 trash bag up against it. Touchdown is on that trash bag. Follow traffic and go straight through two lights.

To your left should be a building with a weird lighted awning, before scaffolding and to your right, tall round steel bollards.  Stop before the doors of the building on the left, and rotate right, so you can see a steel pole between two bollards, with a blue banner on it.  On that pole is a square red metal sign.

Touchdown is affixed to the square red metal sign on the pole slightly ahead and right of you. Go with traffic, with the trees on your right, to the light, and go right. White and orange k-walls will be to your left.  Go straight through the next two lights.

Pass the red awning on your right and stop.

Rotate left.  The corner across the street has a white building with a black door, and to the right of the next building, is a small yellow painted square with a grey framed glass door.  Above that is a small circle window.

Touchdown is center of that small round window. Turn so the green bike lane is at your left, and you're walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street.  Go forward to the intersection and turn left.
Now you'll have construction scaffolding on your right, and a small lawn on the corner to your left.  Go to the end of this block and turn left.  
You'll now have another small lawn area on the corner to your left, with a wrought iron fence.  You'll also see some orange construction barriers (metal barriers) on the left side.  Walk forward just until you're about even with the first patch of orange barriers (you're almost past them). Turn to face the barriers.  There are two orange barrier pieces that are set up along the road (the rest are behind them).  The bear is on the top of the middle of the right-most barrier of these two.     
So you want to start with the orange car on your right and the contruction stuff on the left. Go down to the intersection and take that left and go to the next intersection and take a left and go past the mailboxes until you see the silver fire hydrant. Your touchdown is the top of it.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic with the nearby intersection behind you.
Turn right at the next intersection down a brick road.
Turn right at the next intersection and you'll have white/yellow barriers on your right.
Stop in the next intersection and you'll see 3 bins to the left.  Touchdown is on the blue bin lid. Follow traffic to the light and go left.  Go left again at the next light. Stop just at the first tree on the right. Rotate left.  There is a building with the bricks of the second story painted yellow, and many grey painted beams between which is red brick.   There is a white sticker with red text above a red pipe on the third such grey stripe from the left. Touchdown is on the sticker. With the scaffolding to your left and against traffic, go right at the light. Go right again at the next one. Make a final right at the one after that.  Stop when you reach the yellow awning with red text on your right, and rotate to face it.

A skinny square grey parking meter with a blue band at the top is in front of you. Touchdown is atop it. Go with the flow of traffic to the first intersection and turn right.  At the next intersection, turn right.   There will be a blue van parked on the right hand side of the street.  There's six large white letters on the back of the van.  Touchdown is on the first letter. Position yourself so you're moving with the flow of traffic when you step out of the intersection. A large orange and yellow painting with stick figure people on it will be on your right. Take this road to the first intersection and turn left. 

After you turn, a bright red delivery truck will be parked on your left and a green bike lane will be on your right. You can already see the next intersection just ahead. You'll make another left there. Once you turn, a business with a bright blue awning will be on your left. 

Take this road to the next intersection, but do not pass through it. Stop at the crosswalk and look to your left. There is a blue mailbox next to the road. Touchdown will be sitting on top of the mailbox.  You are on a one way road, go with the flow of traffic. At the next intersection make a left, you will have the green construction walkway on you right. Go straight through the next intersection and you will have a parking on your right. Continue straight and then make a left at the next intersection. You will have a red brick building to your right with a blue and yellow sign. The buildings to your right will have staircases leading up to doors. Stop at the first staircase. On your left will be the entrance to a parking garage. Turn to the right and you will see a white sign with black and red on the building to the right of the staircase. Touchdown is in the center of this sign.  Turn so you are going in the same direction as the cars. You will see a square green sign on your right. Head down this street. Take a left at the first intersection. Head down this street to the next intersection. Take a left in front of the store with the sign that has a red background. Stop when you see the long row of blue bikes. Touchdown is sitting on the last one! Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street.  Go forward and through the underpass.  After that you'll see a spot where you could make a U-turn.  Ignore that and continue forward under the next overpass.  You'll then pass through a tunnel.  When you come out of the tunnel you'll see another overpass (it's brown with a little blue sign on it).  Stop just before you go under that overpass.  There are a bunch of orange cones to your left.  Look down and the bear is on the cone that's closest to you. Orient yourself so that the grassy area is to your left, and move ahead to the intersection. Turn left, and continue so that you are now passing the grass on your left. Move ahead down this long road. When you reach an intersection, turn left. Now on your right you will have a green store awning, followed by a small brown and orange awning. Move down this street a bit until on your right is a blue store sign with red writing. Touchdown is in the very center of the sign. Position yourself where stairs come out of a building to your left and a building with big black/gray doors are on the right. Go forward past the bicycles on your right, to the next intersection and turn right. 
Go to the next intersection and turn right again.
Going with traffic flow, move forward. You will pass construction barriers on your left and a red brick building with black fencing on your right. 
When you reach the corner, there will be an orange and white barrel to the left on the crosswalk lines. Touchdown is on top of that barrel. Step into the intersection and go right, with the scaffolding on your right. At the light, go left.  You'll be facing oncoming traffic. Go through three intersections.
Stop when, under the red band that runs the length of the scaffolding on your left, you arrive at a hanging plant with pink flowers.  

To the right of it is a sideways red light, upon with Touchdown sits. From your starting point, please turn around so that the intersection is behind you, and the shop with pink tables is on your right.  There should be a green bike lane on your left.  Just walk straight up this street, following the bike lane, and stop at the first intersection you come to (just after some parked bicycles and a green storefront with red letters).  

You may need to side-step to your left as you enter the intersection, but as soon as you have done so, turn to your right, so that you are looking down a narrow street between that same green shop with the red letters on the right, and a store with shuttered windows and multi-colored posters on the left.  

Walk down the narrow street between these two buildings, and you should pass a red awning on your left.  

Walk straight through the first intersection you come to, and walk past a large white van that is unloading on your right.  

At the next intersection, after you pass between two red, hexagon-shaped signs, take a right.  You should now be walking on a narrow street.  On you right should be a white banner with blue letters above some neon-colored posters.  On your left should be a white store front with a black awning and mannequins in the windows.  Walk between these two, and past a cargo box with a blue tarp.  

Just keep walking straight, until you come to an intersection with two more red, hexagon signs and a yellow and black awning on the right.  Walk forward and stop in the middle of the intersection.  

Ahead of you, on the right, you should see a wall painted with three faces.  On the left side of this street is a payphone on the sidewalk.  Touchdown is sitting on the curved top of the payphone's housing. Turn so you are facing down the street with the orange and white construction barriers on your left.  Head down the street and turn right at the first intersection.  Head down this street you should see more construction barriers on your right and take a right at the next intersection. This should be a one way street that you are traveling with traffic on.  There will be two grey mailboxes near the next intersection on your left.  Turn right at the next intersection and turn yourself so you are facing down the street. .  There will be a median whit some trees in it on your left. Travel through the intersection until you can make a right turn and turn right.  Turn yourself so the construction scaffolding is on your left.  Go partway down the street until you see pole indicating Parking on your right.  Touchdown is sitting on top of that pole  Orient yourself so that scaffolding with flags is on your right. At the first intersection, turn left. Continue down this street, passing green scaffolding on your right. Pass straight through the first intersection and at the second, turn left. You should now have on your left a store window with yellow letters and on your right, a phone booth. Move just past the phone booth and stop. Then on your right is a small gray post with a blue stripe at the top. Touchdown is on the blue stripe. Face the flow of traffic.There will be a bike on your left side. Go straight to the first intersection and take a right. 
There will now be a sunglass store with a black storefront on your right. Go straight to your next intersection. Take a right and now there is an all glass building on your right and scaffolding on your left. Go straight. You will see lots of tall buildings on both sides. Look for two flags on your left, one is an American flag the other is black, they will be hanging halfway up the building. The touchdown will be right under these flags. So align yourself directly even with the flags and look to your left.  There will be a black canopy awning with a number on it. To the right is a gold light post with a white round bulb. Touchdown is sitting on the bulb.
 Turn so you are walking with traffic. Continue along this road until you come to a four way intersection. Take a right and continue to your next four way intersection. Take a right at this intersection and walk down this road until you see a building with columns on your left. Touchdown is at the base of the revolving doors. Face the intersection and proceed through it. Continue down the road passing a shared bike rack on the right. Pass a set of scaffolding on the left. Approach a giant red billboard in the distance and turn left at its intersection. A lot of police vehicles should be on the curb on the right. Proceed to the next light and stop just before exiting the intersection. Touchdown is on the red portion of the umbrella of a food cart vendor on the left street corner. Face the nearest traffic light, with the scaffolding to your left, and make a quick left at this intersection. Follow the flow of traffic with the scaffolding still on your left, passing a blue store sign on your right, more scaffolding on your left and stop before reaching the second intersection. On your right, there will be a cream colored building with four flags, Touchdown is at the tip-top of the first flagpole closest to you. Go in the same direction as traffic. Go left at the next intersection. Once you turn, the building on the corner to your right will have multiple red signs in the windows. Walk ahead to the next intersection, which will have one yellow rectangle and one blue rectangle on the corner to your right. Go left but stop immediately after turning. See a red newspaper box ahead on your right. Touchdown is sitting on top of it, on the highest side.  Follow traffic to the light and go right.  Go right at the next light, but don't pass the x-walk.  As you face down the street, you'll see a green entry canvas ahead and to your right.  

Face left.  There should be an orange and white striped traffic barrel. Touchdown sits on top of it. Stand so that you are walking with the flow of traffic. Move straight through the intersection and continue for awhile until you reach the next intersection. At the left corner ahead of you at that intersection, the windows have faces in them. Touchdown is on the tiger face. orient yourself so you are moving in the same direction as traffic. at the first intersection turn right. directly on your right there will be a green trash can. continue down this street/road. continue through the first intersection going straight. continue until you spot balloons on your right side. The balloons are blue,yellow and white. There is two sets. Touchdown in in the center of the white sign above the right set of balloons.  Turn so the black iron fence and the park are on your right, and move forward to the nearby intersection.  Turn left, and you'll be on a street with a red-painted bus lane on the right side.  Go straight through the first two intersections you come to.  
Now you're on your target block.  There is construction scaffolding on your left.  Go to the next intersection, but stop when you've just entered the crosswalk (standing on the crosswalk).  On your left there is an orange newspaper dispenser box on the sidewalk.  The bear is on top of this box.  With the black awning on your right, enter the intersection and turn right.  Go down to the next intersection and turn right.  You'll have a green awning to your right.  Go to the next intersection and turn right again. You'll see a white archway on the building to your right.   After the buildings on your left. There will be a tall fence on a lot.  There are some planters inside the fence.  Touchdown is sitting in the last planter. Turn yourself so that you are facing the direction of traffic. Walk straight. 

You will come to an intersection with two yellowish beige buildings across from you on both sides. Continue straight through this intersection. 

Continue walking straight until you see the next intersection in the distance. There should be a rack with two blue bicycles in it to the left, and a beige building with a blue awning to the right. Right before this building is two red pipes next to the sidewalk. Touchdown is sitting on the ground where these two red pipes are. Face away from the intersection. The green scaffolding will be on your left side. Go straight one block. At the intersection make a right turn. There will be a building that the windows look like mirrors on your right side. Go all the way down this long block. At the end of the block there are blue bikes on the left. Go into the middle of the intersection then stop. If you look to your left and back you'll see red on a building on the corner. There are 2 mailboxes in front of that. Touchdown is on top of the first mailbox. Position yourself to face the two stop signs. Go to the intersection and take a right. There will be a brick school on your right and a white or cream colored building on your left. Go straight passing the well known coffee shop. When you get to the next intersection take a right. Now there is a restaurant with a green store front to your left. Go straight. When you get to the next intersection take a right, this will be a small one way street with cars parked on both sides. Go straight and when you get to the stop sign go straight until it lets you turn. Don't turn just position yourself to be facing the road to your right. You should have a restaurant with a beer sign above the black entrance door on your right.Take the left turn to position you closer to this door. Touchdown will be on the middle pain of the door under the beer sign.  Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Head to the nearest intersection.  Stop just before you enter it.  You will be slightly over the crosswalk, look to your right and back.  There is a fire hydrant.  The bear is on top.   Face the direction of traffic and go straight. You are gonna pass a cool looking building on your right and then your gonna go under a bridge. The first intersection you come to you will have a red brick building to your left and a talk black wall on your right. Take a left at this intersection and you will see another bridge in front of you. Go straight toward the bridge going just past the intersection. Look to your right and up and you will see a large black sign with red letters and covers of magazines. Touchdown will be on the face of the first magazine cover (the one closest to the red letters). Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Head to the nearest intersection.  Turn right, then take the next right.  Follow this road, but stop before the next intersection.  While in the crosswalk (Before you enter the intersection) look straight down.  There is a manhole cover.  To the left of it is a red piece of paper on the ground.  The bear is on the paper. Turn so the light blue building with blue awnings is to your right. Go to the corner and turn right. 

Go down this road to just about the big gray building on the left. There is a street light sticking out on the left in front of that building. You can just see the light against the sky background. Touchdown is on top of that light.  Turn to face with traffic, then go to the end of the block and take a right. Go past the blue bikes on your left, and keep going to the end of the block. Take another right, go past the mostly glass building on your left, and to the middle of the one after it. If you look ahead a bit, you should see two flags. Touchdown wedged where the USA flag's pole meets the building, on top of the pole. From the starting position, orient yourself so you are facing the same direction as the flow of traffic. In front of you you'll see an intersection. Go straight through this first intersection. Continue straight through the 2nd intersection. Once you reach the 3rd intersection, take a right. You'll see some scaffolding on the building to your right as you take the right. Move down this street until you get to a street light. At this light, take a left. Continue down this street, straight through your first set of lights. Once you get to the 2nd set of lights, stop. On a concrete island in the middle of the street just before the intersection, you'll see a weird horse-looking decorative piece. Touchdown is sitting on that wire-sculpted horse. Go with traffic into the light and go right. Go right again at the next light. There'll be green awning and then bikes on your left, and scaffolding on your right.

Stop at the last green awning on your right and rotate to face it.  There's a hydrant encased in a square block of cement between two pipes. Touchdown is atop it. Go with traffic, down the alley between buildings where there is not any bushes to your right. Go left at the light, and left again at the next one, where you'll go forward the whole block with a park at your right.  Stop when you're even with the building with the black awning on your left, before the final corner building that has two green awnings. Rotate right.

Touchdown is floating above the clear bag in the trash can with the green lid with the horizontal slit. Align yourself so the orange sign is on your direct right. Head up to the intersection, and make a right. You'll make another right at the next intersection, and a final right at the one after that. You should see a theater sign with some movies or plays on it. 

Head in to the middle of the next intersection, and look across the street to your right to see a black trash bin before a food cart parked on the sidewalk. Touchdown is on top of the trash bin. With the overpass to your right, go straight.  At this first intersection, you will not turn against the traffic, but go until you can turn left onto the street that will allow you to go with the flow of traffic (There's a tall construction fence on the right hand side).  Now going with the flow of traffic, go to the first light and turn left. You'll take another immediate left, so that the tunnel will be till your right.  When you get near the next intersection on your right, there will be a yellow post with a traffic cone next to it.  Touchdown is on top of the traffic cone. Orient yourself so you are facing the intersection just in front of you. Enter the intersection and go left. You will have scaffolding with a green awning on your right in a gray building to your left. Go straight past the first intersection and come to. You will see food carts on your right and left. Continue moving forward to the next intersection and take a left. You should be scaffolding with a black on it on your left and a tan brick building on your right. Continue moving forward to the next intersection and take a left. On your right will be scaffolding with the green awning and on your left will be a brick building. Continue moving forward until you are in the middle of the next intersection. Turn to your right and you will see an umbrella with blue and yellow wedges. Touchdown is sitting on the tip of the umbrella. Orient yourself with traffic so you are facing the intersection closest to you. At the intersection, turn left. The road is narrow with scaffolding on the left and a green construction wall with orange and white barriers on the right. Turn left again at the next intersection. You'll see scaffolding on your left and a large stone state government building on your right. Continue straight until just before entering the next intersection with the traffic light. Touchdown is on top of the wire trash can on the closer right corner of the intersection. Turn and walk the same direction as the cars are going. At the first four way intersection, go left. Continue in the same direction as the cars, passing lit up trees on your left. At the next intersection, the one with the big red artistic structure on the right corner, turn left. There should be another line of lit up trees and a line of parked bikes on your left.  Go straight, eventually passing by multiple green awnings on your right. As you approach the next intersection, you should see lit up Christmas wreaths on the building to your right. Turn and face them. Find the stairway going underground.  Touchdown is sitting on the ground in the middle of the stairway entrance. Move into the intersection. You should be moving towards the large bright yellow building on the left  At the intersection, turn right. Go about half a block passing a firestation on your right. There is a yellow brick wall on the left. When that yellow brick wall ends, and changes into a metal barrier you have reached the destination. You should see a red sign in front of the metal barrier about a fire zone. Touchdown is on top of the sign post.  Turn so the market is on your right and the tennis (or other sport?) court is on your left.  Go forward to the intersection and turn left.  Go one very short block and make a left at the next intersection you come to.  Go straight through the T-intersection, and continue until the end of the block. Stop right before you're actually in the intersection at the end of the block.  On the right corner next to you you'll see a dark mailbox covered in graffiti.  The bear is on top of the mailbox. Face the same direction as traffic and at your very first intersection take a right. There will be a gray building on your right with a large circle painted on the side with something that looks like a bobcat or tiger. Go all the way down this street. Until you see striped road barricades on your right  side and a parking garage to the right of those barricades. There is a gap separating the barricades where the parking garage is and there is a black sign right in front of the second barricade section with yellow letters on it. Touchdown is sitting on this sign.  Go with the floor of the traffic. Scaffholding on the left. Check cashing place on the right. Go past the first little weird intersection until you get to the next one. Take a left. You should be following a white moving truck. Go up to the next intersection and take a left. You will go past the scaffholding steff on the left. You will see the green cab in front of you and the white and blue van to the right. Touchdown is the middle of the green balloon.  Move with traffic,go to the 1st intersection and take a left. There will be scaffolding on your right and a potted plant on your left. Go to the next intersection and take a left, there will be blue awnings on your right. Go to the next intersection and take a left, there is a building with two planted trees at their entrance on your right, the bear is sitting at the base of the doorway of that entrance Start by facing the direction of traffic, then move up to the intersection right in front of you. 

At this intersection you should see a building with a green overhang to your left, and a brick building to your right. Turn right at this intersection. Walk straight through the first intersection, and keep going until you reach the intersection with a green banner and a star on a light pole. Turn right here. 

Walk straight until you get to the intersection with stop signs on the left and right. Continue straight through this intersection. 

As you come to the next intersection, before you reach it, you should see on the left a red painted building, and a patch of green near the bottom of the building near a brown patch on the sidewalk. Touchdown is sitting on this green patch. Turn so you're facing away from the intersection, and the scaffolding is to your right and orange and white barriers to your left.  Follow the street. Ignore the first intersection and keep going forward. You'll see a lot of cement barriers and orange webbing to your left, and a brown building coming up on your right and a glass one on your left past the barriers.  At the intersection those buildings sit on the corner of, go left.  Once you're on the street, move forward just enough so you're standing looking at green barriers on your left with a gap, where you can see gravel far in the distance. The touchdown is at the base of the metal pole which holds a red and white sign, to the immediate left of the concrete access going into the construction yard. Orient yourself so you are facing the same way the traffic is flowing. There should be a brick building with identical grayish green awnings on your right.  Walk forward to the intersection and turn left.  Walk down this road.  Touchdown is on this road but you have to go 2/3 of the way down this long block first.  You'll be getting close when you see a large stone white church on your left surrounded by a black fence.  Stop walking just past the church and just before the row of blue rental bicycles start.  Look to your right, there should be a red fire hydrant with a silver top between two silver poles.  Touchdown is on the silver part of the fire hydrant. Orient yourself such that there's a building with a red/maroon awning on your left.  Move down this street to the first intersection.  At that intersection turn left.  You will note a produce stand on your left and a building with a maroon awning on your right.  Move down this street to the first intersection.  Turn left.  There will be a park on your right and a building with a bright red door on your left.  move forward just slightly so that you can see this red door to your left.  On your right you'll notice some orange and white construction barrels.  Turn to look at these barrels.   Touchdown is sitting at the base of the rightmost barrel on the sidewalk. Orient yourself so that the traffic is coming at you, with the line of trees on your right, go straight and stop when you see a green traffic light pole with 3 green boxes on it to your left. Make a right, stop when you get to the other side of the lane, and you will see a gray building with two open gates. Touchdown is on the yellow circle that is to the right of the building name. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the scaffolding on your left. Move forward to the next intersection and take a right. You should see a building with arched windows on your left and a brown building on your right. Move forward to the next intersection and take another right. You'll see green scaffolding on your left and the brown building will now be on your right. Continue moving forward to the next intersection and go straight. You should see a building with metal shutters and a yellow on it on your right in the financial building on your left. Move forward to the next intersection and turn left. Stop immediately and turn to your left you will see a light pole in front of a store with a green awning. Touchdown is sitting at the base of the light pole. Orient yourself to go down the larger street in the same direction as traffic.  Go straight through the first intersection and then turn left at the second intersection.  You should be headed down a one way road in the same direction as traffic with some green scaffolding on the right, and up ahead, a church on the left.  Go forwards and turn left at the first intersection.    Go forwards and stop at the row of parked blue bikes.  Behind the blue bikes is a store painted red.  Touchdown bear is on the ground in front of the red wall on the left side of the windows. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and the barriers to your right.  Go forward and when the road ends turn right.  Go forward a while, past the first two intersections.  Right after passing through the 2nd intersection, you should see a long row of orange and white barriers to your right.
After they end you should be near another intersection, stop in the intersection and you should see a large blue billboard up on the left and a small black billboard on the right.  On the right corner just in front of you, you will find Touchdown hiding in the green garbage can. If you're facing the correct direction should have all read building to your left that has silver doors. To your right you should see what looks like four bells on a sidewalk. Cross into the intersection and make a quick left. If you look to your left you'll see a white umbrella. Touchdown is sitting in the center of the top of the umbrella. Position yourself so you're moving with the flow of traffic. You'll be able to see two American flags up ahead on your left. Go straight through the first intersection in front of you and past those two flags. At the next intersection, turn right. 

After you turn, you'll be facing oncoming traffic on a one-way road. There will be a business on your left on the corner with white signs and red lettering. Go straight down this street past green scaffolding on your left and a parking garage on your right. Keep going until you get close to the next intersection. Look at the light gray building on your left. Above the first story windows is a carving of two lions holding a shield. Touchdown is right in the middle of the shield between the lions. Align yourself with the flow of the parked cars.  Go all the way up this road, passing a postal truck, and take the first right at the intersection, and then another first right at the intersection after that. Go down this road until you hit the first car parked on the left, the grey sedan with a yellow license plate. Touchdown is on the plate. Turn so that a small blue sign with a bus on it is to your right. Move ahead against traffic. Go straight through the upcoming 3 way intersection. After quite a distance, go straight through the next intersection, a 4 way. There are 2 brick buildings on your right. Walking to just between them, turn to face the sidewalk between them with park benches along it. Touchdown is in the middle of the blue sign on the building to the right, covering some words.  Follow traffic to the light and go left. Go left again at the next light, and proceed to the end of that block, going through the light, but stopping before crossing the crosswalk.

Directly ahead you should see a blue entry canvas on your right and a green one on the left, as well as a green bike line.

On the traffic light pole slightly to your right is a red box, atop which sits Touchdown. Orient yourself so you're going the same way the traffic is.  Walk up to the light and take a left.  Walk down this long block.  As you walk down this block, keep an eye on your left, you'll come across a grey building that is completely surrounded by scaffolding.  When you're even with the center of this building, stop walking.  Rotate to your left so you're looking at the building, and find the white rectangular sign with red markings and a red double sided arrow.  The touchdown is in the center of this sign. Orient yourself so that there is green scaffolding on your left, just ahead of you. Move forward, passing the scaffolding, until you reach a Y intersection. Continue along your same path by going towards the right. At the next intersection, (where there are a few small orange construction signs), turn right. Now on this small road you should have brick buildings on both sides, and soon on your right is a blue flag. Move to the next intersection and turn right.

Then continue down the street until on your left is a grassy area and you are standing in the center of it. Face right and there are 2 orange cones. Touchdown is on the cone farther ahead. Turn so you are facing in the same direction as traffic. Walk to the end of the block. 

Turn left. There should be a shop with a gray sign and red and blue letters. Go forward. 

At the first 3 way intersection, turn left. Walk to the end of the block.

At the intersection, turn left, but stop immediately. Just ahead on the right is a green square awning with white lettering. Touchdown is on the image of a gemstone on this sign.

 From the starting position, look in the direction of traffic -- the direction the cars are facing. Move a short distance down the street until you see a park on your right. Just before the park on the right side of the street is a red door on a brick building. Touchdown is on the handle of the door. Face the intersection directly in front of you and go right at that intersection. 
Go to the next intersection and go right again. There will be a big tan windowed building on your left and a red brick building on your right with a store on the corner.
Continue down this road, past the construction scaffolding on your right. Keep going where you see construction scaffolding on your left. There is an orange ladder leaning against that scaffolding and Touchdown is on the ground centered under the first rung. With all the shops on your left and the bus stop on your right, go straight ahead through the next two intersections.  At the third intersection enter it and stop.  The building  on your right has a dark red awning  with yellow-orange foreign writing.  Touchdown is on the yellow-orange circle on the corner of the awning. Walk against traffic and go right at the light.  Stop before crossing the crosswalk.  The building on the left has a shield shaped yellow and brown sign on its red brick wall.  Touchdown is atop the flag pole with the American flag in front of that building. Orient yourself so that the green scaffolding is on your left. Go forward and turn left at the first intersection. Continue forward and then turn left at the next intersection. Stop right before the next intersection. Across the street and to your right there should be a traffic cone on the sidewalk. The touchdown is the cone. Orient yourself so you are facing oncoming traffic with people walking on your left. Move through 2 intersections. Just before you come to a third, Touchdown is in front of a flower bed in the traffic median to your right. Go with traffic to the light and go right. Go right again at the next light.  Enter the intersection and go a single step right at the final light.

Touchdown is atop the green trash bin to your right. Going with traffic, there is an intersection soon as you start,turn left at that intersection.
Keep straight. You will pass two men unloading a truck to know your going in the right direction.
Make a left at the next intersection.
Stop when you are "directly next to" the woman on your left riding a bike with a black coat on and green hat. She will be almost at the end of the green bike lane.
Touchdown is in the basket in the front of her bike. 
 Follow traffic, past a purple girder on your left, and take a right at the light.

Ignore the one-way street on the right, staying straight until you reach the light, and go through the intersection, but don't pass the crosswalk on the other side.

Face right and verify you're staring straight down a path between the two fences.

Without rotating, note the yellow traffic box on the pole to your left.  Touchdown is sitting on top and center of the top yellow arm of the traffic box. Turn yourself so you are facing with traffic and see a large suspension bridge in the distance and start down the street.  You will continue going straight past a building which will have some netting on it on your right.  Once you past that building you will see some construction equipment below you on the right.  Touchdown is sitting on the red dumpster on top of the ladder in the construction area. Turn so you are going with traffic. Go down the street and at the light go right. There will be a red lettered sign on your right. Go one block, and take another right. Lime green and red lettering on the store to the right. Go up this street until you find the green fence on the right with posters all over it. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the face on the orange poster.  From your starting point, please turn around so that you are facing the opposite direction as the cars on your street (you should be looking at the headlights of some parked cars in front of you on the left).  There should be scaffolding and a white construction wall on your right.  Walk down this road until you see a small alleyway on your left, where you should see the bare metal backs of two hexagon-shaped signs on poles.

Walk up this small alley, and turn to your right onto the road on the other side.  Walk up this street, again in the opposite direction as the cars, so you see the headlights of parked cars as you go.  Continue walking until you come to a four-way intersection.  

Turn right at this intersection, and walk up the narrow street that has a green bike lane on the right-hand side.  You should now be walking in the same direction as the cars on your street.  You should see a billboard up ahead on your left with a photo of a woman in a black sweater.  

Walk toward this billboard, and then just go straight through the intersection.  On the other side, you should be walking down a narrow road with scaffolding and metal barriers on the right side.  

Walk just past the two orange cones on the left side of this road, and stop when you are right next to a big white van (parked on the left) that has large green and purple letters.  On the corner in front of you, you should see a black, slightly hourglass-shaped trash can.  Touchdown is sitting right on top of this trash can. Orient yourself with traffic and proceed through the first intersection. Turn right at the next intersection. Follow this new road and turn right at the first light. Go through the first traffic light of this road Stop when even with the second closed block of the bridge. Touchdown is sitting on this closed block. From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  The building with white columns and red doors should be on your left.  

Walk forward and stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to.  Turn to your left and walk down a narrow street that has red and green glowing letters on the right, and a store with white posters in empty windows on the left.  

When you come to some shopping carts loaded with trash bags on the left, you will need to step to your right before you can continue walking straight down the road.  Do so, but then keep moving straight forward,   Make sure that the building with the gray columns on both sides of the doors is on your right as you continue moving.  

When you come to a fork in the road, veer to your right, and take the street with the orange and white construction barrels.  Walk down this street, and stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to.  

Turn to your left in this intersection.  A shop with a blue awning and gold lettering should be on your right as you pass.  

Move forward, and stay to the right of the fork in the road (the yellow diamond-shaped sign with two arrows should be on your left).  Move forward just a bit further, and look for an orange cone at the base of a tree on the right-hand sidewalk.  Touchdown is sitting right on top of that cone. Head down the street following the flow of traffic. At the first traffic light turn right, Go down one block to the next traffic light and turn right,following the flow of traffic on your left side will be a restaurant with out door eating follow this street to the next traffic light and turn right. as soon as you turn right touchdown will be sitting in the door way on your left. the door is painted red and he is on the top step. Position yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and immediately going through an intersection. As soon as you go through the intersection, you'll see a bike rack on your left. Take this street to the next intersection and turn right. 

After you turn a business with large windows and bright green signs will be on your left. Go straight through the first intersection you get to on this street and stop just before you get to the second intersection. On the right, you'll see a bike leaning up against a pole. Touchdown is sitting on the seat of the bike. Face the flow of traffic with a taxi on your right.

At the intersection turn right.

You should see trashbags on your right and white truck on the left.

Go forward and slightly left when you get the 3-way option.

Step through the intersection and you should see 2 bikes on the right, a trashcan on the left, and 2 people moving something out of the back of a vehicle.

On the ground next to the people is a blue chest.

Touchdown is on this chest. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Turn right at the next intersection.
You'll see a bridge ahead of you.
When you're almost at the bridge turn right.  Make sure you take the right that keeps you moving with traffic.
The road will bend around to the right, do NOT take the right turn, just stay straight.  The building to your right should be red with black fencing to the left.

When you're at the intersection that has a building with white trim/doors on your right, stop.

On that corner you'll see a trashcan with an umbrella in it.  Touchdown is in that trashcan. Go with traffic flow through the 3-way intersection. When you reach the next intersection, which is a full one, turn right. 

Go to the next intersection and turn right. 

Go past the park on your left and just through the next intersection. There will be a dark blue/purple awning to your left. Before the purpleish awning there is an orange paper box and a yellow box on the sidewalk near the street. Touchdown is on top of the yellow box. 

 Align yourself with the scaffolding on your left, you want to adjust to go down this street. Head to the first intersection, and take a left. You'll take a much longer road, and make another left.

On your right after you make the turn, there should be a hydrant next to 1 pole with graffiti on it, in front of a shop with a revolving door. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant.
 Orient so that the statue is to your left. Go down the small street ahead. The park is to your left. Go through the first intersection. Pastraight under some trees and you should be at the next intersection. There is a red fire hydrant ahead of you to the right. Touchdown is on the hydrant. Follow traffic and go left at the light, and left again at the next one.  Go past the metal overhead door on your right, under the scaffolding and on the left you will see a foreboding red brick building before a black one.  

Facing left, you'll see on the black building, to the left of the glass window, is a small inset circle in the wall with a white symbol. Touchdown is affixed to it. follow the direction of traffic, heading to the intersection. A pharmacy will be on your right. Then turn right at this intersection, The grey building will be on your left and the small shops and pharmacy will be on your right. Now go to the next intersection following the traffic direction. Another pharmacy will be on your right at this intersection. Go pass this intersection and heading straight, you will see some stores on your right side with same green background design. There is a white SUV parked on the right side of the road, next to the SUV is a shipping store sign. The touchdown is on the blue letters of that shipping store sign. Turn so that the plants are on your left.  Cross through the intersection.  When road ends, turn right.  At the intersection turn right.  Then take the next right.  There shoudl be a white building on your left, and a redish dbrown and white striped on your right.  Past the moving truck on the right, you will find an atm.  Type in your PIN. If you are in the correct position there will be a white colored building which has several sets of three windows one larger in the middle of two smaller on each set. The one set on the first floor has three air-conditioners in the window. These windows are all arch shaped. These are on your left. To your right is a black fence with the small brick building that has glass block windows.
Head straight into the intersection.
Now turn left.
Go straight until you reach the next intersection. Now make another left turn.
If you are on the correct street to your right is a building that has black bricks on top and almost rust colored blocks on the bottom. Also in front of this building you will see shelter with a yellow sign on it the shelter is silver colored.
Continue straight until you reach the next intersection, but do not cross.
To your right you will see two yellow boxes and one red box touchdown is sitting directly on top of the red box. Turn so the yellow cones are on your right.  Follow the flow of traffic to the next intersection and turn left.  The store on your left will have a square metal covering that is bright orange.  Follow this road to the next intersection and turn left again.  The store on your left will have flowers on display now. Follow traffic halfway down this street, watching the left hand side for a store with a blue sign.  Stop just after you pass that store.  To the right of the blue sign there is a door with a long rectangular window above it.  Touchdown is sitting on the white square right in the middle of that window above the open door. Turn so you are following the direction of traffic on this road.  Follow this road and turn left at the intersection after the row of blue bikes.  Still following traffic, proceed down this road and turn left at the intersection just before the building with all of the American flags.  There should be a diamond patterned wall on your left now, follow that wall until you see some stores.  Keep going until you see the patterned wall show up again. Stop when you reach that wall and there is a sign post with a small red sign on the left of the post and a larger red sign with a green and blue section on the right.  Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the smaller red sign on the left.  His head is just below the white arrow pointing left. So you're going to want to go with the flow of traffic. Find the flow where you have a movie poster on your right, a food stand on the left and a white truck with blue grafitti in front of you. Continue on this road until you hit the intersection and then take a left. You should see a deli and hardware store on your right. Go up to the intersection but not all the way. Look left and you should see a yellow cab. There is a sign behind that cab. Your touchdown is right in the middle.  Orient yourself with traffic and proceed forward. Go through the first intersection and turn right at the second. Turn right at the next light as well, barely leaving the intersection. On the right should be a black fire hydrant. Touchdown is on its silver cap. Orient yourself so you are looking at the crosswalk with scaffolding on the far right corner.  Head into the intersection and immediately turn right.  You should see two bell like objects on the ground to your left and a red post on the right.  Head down this road and when it splits, stay right.  You should walk right up to some barriers and yellow and red signs.  One of those signs has a black arrow pointing right.  Touchdown is hiding in the middle of this sign. You're pretty much starting in an intersection.  Move yourself a little bit until you're truly in the intersection in order to figure out which way to go.  One corner has a shop with a bright red sign that wraps around the corner.  Position yourself so you'll pass this on your left.  On your right you will then have the red brick building with the long sign that is black with red and green stripes along the bottom.  Move forward and pass straight through the first intersection you come to.  
At the second intersection, turn left.  You'll now have a shop with blue and green painting on the windows and black awnings on your right side.  
Go to the other end of this block.  Stop when you're standing in the intersection (based on what you can see), but aren't really at the point where you're ready to decide about a turn.  The corner behind you on your left side has a bunch of empty wooden display shelves outside (like you would put flowers or vegetables on).  The bear is on the bottom shelf, on the corner section. GO WITH traffic, GO LEFT at the light, GO LEFT again at the next light, GO LEFT one last time at the next light.

STOP when you're at the last orange k-wall before the three white ones on your right. ROTATE RIGHT.  You should see a brown square entry canopy to your right, and a blue sign band with white letters, and gold dimensional letters above it.

FIND Touchdown between the two orange k-walls atop the corner of the short black fence around the tree. Align yourself so the park is on your right, and head straight, not right. Keep heading down the freeway, and on the pole to your right on the freeway there's a blue sign and a red box, head several steps up, you should see the started of fenced in courts to your right below. On the left side of the road before the courts, there's a yellow traffic light facing away from you. Touchdown is sitting on top of the yellow traffic light. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and turn right at the first intersection.  Doing so will put a business on your right with a red marquee and black awnings on the left.  You should see scaffolding ahead on the right as you go down this road.  Go straight through the next intersection.  When you get to the next intersection, turn right and you will see a food cart on the right, two red awnings on the left and a blue flag on the right further day.
As you move down the road you will see an overpass ahead.  Turn right just before it.  Move forward just a bit to where the orange/white barriers and fence is.  On that fencing/netting is a bright orange sign with a black arrow that Touchdown is hiding on. Go with traffic, with the k-walls to your right.  Take a right at the light. Take another right at the next one.  Now, pass the first light and take a right at the second one.

There will be scaffolding on the right and a blue entry canopy on the left. Stop when you're aligned with it, and rotate to face it.  Touchdown is dead center of the blue entry canopy. Follow the one way street with the flow of traffic, such that the store with a red banner and white font is to your right. Walk until you get to an intersection, and go right, just enough to clear the intersection.

Turn slightly to your left, and ahead, to your front and left, will be a grey building with a stylized red square in a red circle.  The touchdown is glued to the square.

 Go with the flow of traffic. Pass the first side street and keep going straight.
Turn left at the next intersection. You can see an overhead highway in this direction.
Turn right at the intersection. The highway will be on your left now. Look for a manhole cover on the left just before the next intersection. The manhole cover is next to white no parking lines. Touchdown is in the center of the manhole cover.
 You will not make any turns.  Follow traffic through the light and pass the buildings with flags on your right, near a red building with a green entry canvas. Keep going until you're even with the last bus shelter on the street to the left. Rotate left to face it. On the white sign band of the left corner building is, on the outside (not behind the glass), a stylized red geometric symbol with two white triangles touching inside it. Touchdown is between the triangles. You should be facing in the direction of the traffic, with the glass building on your right and the trees on your left. Go straight until you reach the first street light at the first intersection and make a right. You should again be going with the traffic towards two flags. Go up one block until you reach the first street light and make a right. There should be a pink rectangle to your left, continue on the street in the direction of traffic until you reach the brown canopy above the 3 black framed doors. Touchdown is to the right of the canopy in the middle of the third display window. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
At the intersection directly in front of you, turn left.  This may require you going right, then left.  If you see two orange cones and what looks like a broken barrier on the sidewalk to your left, you're good.  Go forward. Go for a ways.
Turn left at the next intersection  You should be on a large one-way street with a store that has a bright blue banner with white text on it on the right.
Turn right at the next intersection.  There should be a blue umbrella on the right and a yellow box on the left.  Touchdown is on the yellow box.
 Follow traffic down the one way street with the building with dark red trim on your right.  Go left at end of block. 

Walk forward until you go just past a green banner on a silver metal pole to your right.  Facing right, you should see a black square metal post with a blue band. Touchdown is sitting on top of it. Turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street, and you are facing an intersection directly in front of you.  Walk forward into the intersection, stop, and turn to your left.

Now start walking down the narrow road with the large green construction wall on the left.  There should be blue awnings on your right as you move down this road.  

Stop when you come to an intersection and turn to your left.  Now walk down the road that has blue scaffolding and a green canopy on your right.  

Stop when you are in the middle of the next intersection.  Turn to your left, and try to walk down the road between the two shops with large glass windows. There shouldn't be any scaffolding on this road.  As you enter the road, the map may try to take you sideways onto the road you just came from, so make sure that there is a phone booth on your right and a green pole on your left.  

When you are properly situated, keep moving forward, and you should see four  bicycles parked on the left-hand sidewalk.  Walk past them and keep going.  

You will soon see a green awning over a red door on your right, and two brown mailboxes on your left.  Walk forward so that you are right next to the mailboxes, and you will see a phone booth with an orange poster on it.  There is a picture of a brown wooden gavel/hammer on that poster.  Touchdown is sitting right on top of that gavel.   Orient yourself so you are moving against the flow of traffic.
Move forward and hang a right at the intersection, only moving far enough to be right next to the median.  Looking down the street you are on and the median, you should a long red marquee with blue text on the right and some scaffolding on the left. Directly in front of you will be a pole wish signs on it.  Touchdown is on the little red sign furthest down on the pole. Align yourself with the intersection directly in front of you, and head in to it with the flow of traffic to make a right. You'll make a right shortly after as well, there should be an ice cream truck on your left after the turn. Head down until you see a blue bin behind a parked car on your left. Align yourself with the car and you should see a black awning with a black door and a gold handle to the right of it. Touchdown is in the middle of the numbers on the awning. Orient yourself so that the fenced park area is to your left. Move ahead to the first intersection, and continue straight through (you will pass a white brick building with a light pink awning on your right). Continue to the next intersection and turn right. On your right as you turn you will have closed black security doors with a red sign.

Now move forward to the next intersection and turn right again. Now there will be a chain link fence to your left. Move forward just a bit until you are even with the start of the yellow awning on your left. Touchdown is on the first red writing on the sign. Orient yourself with traffic, proceed to the light, and turn left. Turn left at the next light as well. Turn left at the next light for the third time. Stop after you pass the blue building on the left entirely. Touchdown is at the bottom of the window in the last red door of the blue building. Face in the same direction as the flow of traffic, there is a green construction dumpster to your left.

Travel forward down this street until you reach the traffic light.
Turn left here.
See the brick building to your left with the big blue door.

Travel straight ahead to the next traffic light and stop in the crosswalk.
Look to your right side and see the green domed trash can. 

Touchdown is sitting atop the green trash can on the opening.


 Stand  so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Go forward to the intersection, and turn left. Continue to the next intersection, and turn left again. Continue to the next intersection, and turn left again. On your left will be a phone booth. Right after that is a tall street pole with a small white and red sign. Touchdown is on that sign. To verify you are in the correct position or should be a wall on your right side. There should be buildings in your left side made of brick some red and some white with black gates.
Please head straight on the street.
When you reach the first intersection please turn right.
If you're in the correct position you will see yellow and white striped concrete barriers to your right. To your left you will see a red brick building with black windows. You're going to continue straight through the first two intersections.
When you reach the third intersection directly across the street you will see four bases on the sidewalk in the middle of the street. They almost look like bells. They have white tops. Touchdown is on top of the one on the right that is closest to you if you are standing in the intersection. Turn so you are going with traffic. Go straight to the traffic light. Take a left. There will be a line of cones on the right. Go straight until you get to the light. Take a left.Go straight until you are beside the green van parked on the left.  There is a brick building on the left with a bay window. Touchdown is sitting on the entry light between this window and the entry door.  Go down the street that has the red awnings on both sides, and make a left at the intersection, with the white stars now on the building to your right. Pass those stars, continue down the street and make a left at the intersection. Stop right at that corner. On your right, where you see the crosswalk sign, Touchdown will be above that, on the center of the white arrow. Turn so you are heading with traffic down the one way street. You will see a building on the left that is gray on top, and light green around the bottom. Head down this street until you come to the first intersection. Take a right. You will see a green bike lane on your left. Keep going down this street. When you get to the next intersection take a right. Stop immediately after turning. On the right you will see a bright yellow box and Touchdown is sitting on top! With planters to your right, go straight. Take a left. There are now orange drums ahead. At the next light, take another left. You should see scaffolding to the right and orange drums and flags to the left. Go straight. When you see building with strange circular windows to the left, go just past it and stop. There is a drab building to the left with a fire hydrant in front of it. Touchdown is sitting on the fire hydrant. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and the large glass building ahead on the left.
Go through the first intersection, past the glass building, through the second intersection, past some scaffolding and turn left at the intersection where the building has the green, yellow and blue rectangular blocks sticking out.
Head past the scaffolding on the left and stop right when you get to the scaffolding on the right.  On the barriers right in front of you is an orange sign with a black arrow that is hiding Touchdown. Orient yourself, so that the black awning is to your left and the traffic is coming at you. Place yourself to the left, move forward to reach the middle of the first intersection, there should now be a bench to your right. 
Orient yourself so that the bench is now on your left. Take a right, which leads you to the middle of the next lane, go forward toward the blue building that is on the left side of the street in front of you and take a left. 
You basically went to the other lane. The bench should now be on your left and the blue storefront is on your right. On your right, Touchdown will on the light that is to the left of the blue building entryway. Go forward, with the green awning with white glyphs to your right.  Turn left at the light and immediately left again, going back down the road you just came up, but with the treed median now on your left.  Go through the light when you get back to it, but stop before touching the crosswalk on the other side.  Ahead and to your right on the sidewalk is a white-capped hydrant, upon which Touchdown sits. You want to turn so that the park is on your right and you are headed the same way as traffic in your lane. At the first opportunity, make a right. Also take the next available right.About halfway down this block there is a driveway to your right, with a chain link fence and a cone sitting in the middle. Touch down is sitting on the cone.  Move with traffic, go to the 1st intersection and take a right. There are fire hydrants on both sides of the street and a very unique tree on your right. On your right you will pass a white building with a red door, continue to the intersection, you will see a row of blue bikes on the right. On that corner there is a blue mailbox, the bear is on top
 Follow traffic to the light and go right. Go right again at the next one.

There'll be purple awning to your left, then scaffolding behind k-walls to your right.

Stop when you're between the last two purple awnings and rotate left.  Above the red awning to the right of the purple awning are huge yellow dimensional letters, with some sort of three pointed circle before them.  Touchdown is in the center of it. Orient yourself to follow the flow of traffic. There should be some red advertisements on your left. Continue forward and then turn right at the next intersection. There will be a sandwich store with a yellow and white sign outside on your right. The touchdown is on the base of the blue trash can to the left of the store. Go with the flow of traffic.  Turn left at the first intersection.  There will be a tan building with gold letters on it on your right.  Go to the next intersection and turn left again.  There will be neon red letters up ahead on your left.  Go down this street, watching for an orange awning on your left.  Past this awning is a pink storefront.  Pass this storefront as well and immediately stop.  Turn 90 degrees to the left to face the pink storefront.  To the right of it, above an open doorway, is a security camera.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this camera.   Face the direction of traffic, with the blue awning on your left, go forward and make a right at the intersection with the beige building. 
You will now see brown doors on your right, pass them and make your last right at the first intersection. Brick buildings will be on both sides of you. 
Continue down the street, passing the first intersection and stopping after stepping into the second intersection. Look to your right, there will be black awnings above the black dining area. Touchdown is on the center of the black diamond sign that is on the brick building to the right of the black awning. Go with the median on your left. Go through the first 2 three way intersections, then turn right at the third one you come to. When you turn there will be a large building on your left and barriers and construction wall on your right. 

When you can just about see the end of the barriers on your right, turn and find a red rectangle sign with white lettering and a two-way arrow on it. Touchdown is in the center of this sign.  Orient yourself with traffic, proceed, and turn right at the light. Turn right at the next light as well, passing alongside a barricade on your left. Turn right at the next light again. Stop when even with the second store on the right. Touchdown is centered on its framed menu board hanging on its wall. Step into the intersection and go under the bridge. Turn left at the first intersection. Turn left at the next intersection and go back under the bridge. Turn left again at the next intersection, the bridge will be on your left. Stop directly next to the second column from the corner of the bridge. There is a white suv parked in front of the second column. Touchdown is sitting on the emblem of the white suv. Position yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic. You're going to pass a playground on your right when you're halfway to the next intersection. When you get to that first intersection, turn right. After you turn, there will be a business on your left with a green awning and flowers in a long window. 

At the next intersection, turn right again. Once you turn, there will be a white building with bicycles on the awning on your right. Just ahead on the right, you'll see a fenced in area. It's the other side of the playground you previously passed around the block. Just after the fencing ends, a large brick building with light trim will be on your right. You'll see bright red double doors in line with the steps to this building. Touchdown is on the black sign above the doors.  Turn with the flow of cars and head to the nearest intersection.  Turn right.  Then continue to the next intersection and turn right again.  Continue to the next intersection and take a couple steps through, and stop.  There is a store with necklaces on your right.  There are hats in the bottom of the display window.  The bear is on the middle blue hat.   From your starting point, please turn around so that the parking lot behind the black fence is on your right, and the open parking lot is on your left.  Move straight forward down the road, and go straight through the first intersection you come to.  You should see a white wall to your right with lots of large black letters as you pass.  

Just keep moving straight forward, toward the bridge up ahead.  But stop in the next intersection you come to, just before you cross under that bridge.  

Turn right at this intersection and walk between the two rows of parked cars, with the bridge on your left.  .  You will see some white diagonal stripes painted on the road up ahead.  Walk forward and go straight through this next intersection, so that you are walking between two similar rows of parked cars, with the bridge still on your left.    

You should see two large white trailers with green stripes on their rear doors behind a fence to your left (under the bridge).  Walk forward toward them, but before you get next to them, you should see a white bicycle-with-rider icon and a white arrow painted on the road just in front of you.  Touchdown is sitting on the road at the tip of this white arrow. Rotate to face forward with the flow of traffic, and the direction the front of parked vehicles are facing.

Proceed forward to the next intersection.
Turn right at the intersection.

Proceed forward to the next intersection.
Turn right at the intersection.

Proceed forward until you see three flag poles on your right.
You will be aligned with the middle flag pole when you stop.

Rotate and look up, to see 5 green boxes extending from the face of the building near the flag poles.

The bear is sitting in the middle of the window of the lowest green box. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Turn left at the next intersection.  Once you do the bright pink sign with white lettering will be on your right.
Head down this road for a ways and you will eventually get to an intersection with scaffolding on your left. Turn left here.
Stop just beyond the crosswalk and you will find Touchdown hiding on a dark colored post with a blue band to your left. Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street, and facing the intersection that's right near you.  Move into this intersection and turn left.  Now you'll be on a street that curves ahead of you, with a church on your right.  Follow the curves of the street as you move forward.  After the curves you'll come to an intersection.  Turn left. 
On this new block you'll have construction  scaffolding on your right.  Go forward to the next intersection you come to.  You're going to turn left, but not leave the intersection.  Right after you've begun the left turn, stop (you'll still be in the middle of the intersection).  
One of the four corners here has a shop with a red awning that wraps around the corner.  On that corner is a green trash can.  The bear is on top of the trash can. Turn yourself until you see a blue umbrella on your left and clothing table on your right and head down the street with traffic.  Continue straight on this street until next intersection.  Turn right at intersection and turn yourself right until you see touchdown sitting on the sidewalk in front of a trash can near the construction scaffolding. Turn around so that the scaffolding is on your left and the hydrant is on your right. Head up to the first intersection to make a right. Head straight through the intersection with the olive post box, and make a right at the next intersection, after the green bike lane. stop after you pass the 2 blue post boxes on your right, and you'll find touchdown at the base of the tree with stone around it. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Go forward until you're next to a silver food cart on your right.  You'll next to two yellow poles.  Use the rightmost choice here even though it doesn't look like you'll go anywhere.  This will put you on a sidestreet to the right.  Go forward down this street.
Turn left at the next intersection.  You'll be going against the flow of traffic with a small bit of scaffolding on the left.
Go down to the second intersection and turn left.  Once you do, on the right will be a white building and brick building to the left.  Go until you're just past a white awning on your right.

Turn right and you'll see a pink building.  Right there, is a pole with a white and red sign.  Touchdown is on this sign. Position yourself so you are following traffic direction , the scaffolding and orange/white traffic blocks should be on your left. Now go straight forward, turn left at the 1st intersection. Now scaffolding with red banner will be on your left. A building with flags will be on your right. Go straight to the next intersection, you will see the scaffolding when red banner on your left. Turn left at this intersection. When you made the turn, you will see a red truck to your right and orange/white traffic block and scaffolding on the left side. Go forward. Pay attention to your left.  When you pass the scaffolding with green banner, you will see scaffolding with red banner again. Then you will see a number on the red banner , under it there is a white sign with a brown animal shaped logo on it. The touchdown is on that logo.   Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
You should see scaffolding on your right and a playground ahead on the left.  Turn right at the first intersection you get to past the playground and right again at the next intersection.  After doing so, you will have a green awning on your left.
Head down to a building just before the scaffolding on the right.  About halfway down that building you should see a green pole with a red and white sign on it where Touchdown is hiding.
 Turn so the construction is on your right. Go down the street and take a right. Go one block and take another right. Stop just before you get to the light. On the right there is blue awning. On the right end there is a circle design. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of this design.  Go in the same direction as traffic and turn right at the intersection.  Go right again at the next one.  There are now red hearts on the windows of the corner store on your left. The sidewalk will soon open up wider on your left. Look for a parking garage after that on your left. Standing before the last 2 bays, turn and look behind you. There is a light pole on the right side of the road ahead, in front of a white awning with red patch. Touchdown is sitting on the ground leaning against that light pole.  Align yourself with the flow of traffic in your lane, the bus and bus stop should be on your right. Go straight ahead, and make a left at the intersection. You should now have a red lane on your right side after the turn. Head to the next intersection and stop. Directly in front of you should be a curved road sign with a yellow diamond on it. Touchdown is on the diamond. Orient yourself such that a basketball court is on your right. Proceed and turn right at the first light, then right at the next light. Stop just before the pedestrian crosswalk at the next intersection. To the right will be a fire hydrant and Touchdown is on top of it. Turn so you can enter the road between the green construction and the brown building with windows.  The building with red awnings will be behind you.  Follow the green construction wall down this road and turn right at the first intersection.  The brown building with windows will be on your right.  Proceed down this road and turn right again, keeping the brown building on your right.  Go to the end of the block and turn right again, the brown building is still on the right.  Go down this road and stop when you reach the first red awning on the left.  To the left of the awning is a single lamp coming out of the tan brick wall.  Touchdown is sitting on the point at the top of that lamp. From the starting position, turn away from the intersection that's very close to you. You'll be looking down a narrow street with subway entrances on either side of the street and scaffolding on either side. Move down this narrow street a short distance. Until you see a street on your right. Just past this street, on the sidewalk on the right side of the street, is a wire mesh trashcan next to a light pole. Touchdown is sitting on top of the trash can. Turn around so that you are going with the flow of traffic.  There should be a red lane on the far right side of the road.  Go straight for a short distance until you come to a stop light.  Turn left.  Go straight.  You will pass straight through the next stop light you see.  You will pass a red soccer field and a blue basketball court on your right.  Immediately after you pass the basketball court, you should see a white and red sign near the edge of the road.  Touchdown is sitting on top of that sign. Turn so the orange and white barricade is on your right and the brown brick wall is on your left.  Travel straight through the first intersection. Turn right at the second intersection. After you turn, you should see a hot dog vendor on the left corner.  Travel a little ways down the block, past the barricade on your right, and stop when you get to the end of the barricade.  Touchdown is sitting at the very end of the barricade on the orange block. Follow the flow of traffic and turn right at the first intersection. Go forward and then turn right at the next intersection. There will be construction. The touchdown is on the black numbers on the white speed limit sign on the right.  Standing in the intersection, the corners with the orange barrels should be on your right.  Go past the orange and white barrier on the right to the corner, and make a right. there will be more of the orange and white barriers on your right. At the next intersection make another right. There is a building that looks like a school on the left. On the front ofthat building is gray stone  with yellow writing, then a set of three doors and then two doors right next to them. Touchdown is on the ground in the center of the two doors. Stand so that you are moving with traffic, with the building with red brick on the upper portion to your right. Move ahead to the first intersection and pass through it to continue along the same road. Now a brick building should be on your right. Continue straight, passing a black gated building to your right, and 2 separate scaffolding sections to your left.

When you get to the intersection, turn right. You should be passing a short red post on the corner to your right. Very soon there is a green mailbox on your right. Touchdown is on top of the mailbox. Follow the flow of traffic to the next intersection.  Turn left.  Continue to next intersection, turn left.  Face the right and continue down the street, until you see a house with a black/brown pattern by the windows.  There is a bike below this house that is blue.  The bear is on the seat.   Follow the flow of traffic and go straight until you see a dumpster with a blue tarp on your right. The touchdown is on the middle of the back wheel of the black car behind the dumpster.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Go forward until the first intersection and turn right. Move ahead, passing scaffolding on your left, until you reach the next intersection. Stop in the center of it. Face left and there is a green mailbox near the corner. Touchdown is on top of the mailbox. Follow the flow of traffic to the intersection.  Turn left. Follow the flow of traffic to the intersection.  Turn left.  Continue straight to the next intersection.  Turn left.  Building on left has fancy arch entry.  Pass this building.  Pass the giant pig on the truck.  Look at the truck.  The bear is on the nose of the baby pig.  Stand so that you are moving with traffic, facing the overpass. Move forward into the overpass and before you have fully exited it, turn right. Just after turning you should have 2 orange diamond signs ahead on your right (one above the other). Move forward along this narrow road. You should have a row of orange and white striped barriers on your left.

Continue along this road until you are near the intersection but not yet to the crosswalk. In front of you in the road is a round manhole cover. Touchdown is in the center of the cover. Face the direction of the traffic. Go straight until you get to the second traffic light and make a left. Go straight and stop just before the second traffic light. You should see a red store front to your left with a bird symbol on it. Touchdown is in between the words in front of the bird symbol. Turn to face the 3 way intersection you are closest to, not the 4 way. Go straight through it. The red building to your left has a blue awning over the windows. This is a two way street, but you seem to be in the wrong lane. Go straight at the next intersection you finally come to. Approaching the next intersection, stop before getting to the green sign on the corner building to your left. Turning to face your right, you are facing a chain link fenced parking lot with a chain link gate, standing directly in front of the blue and white sign on the fence. Touchdown is in the middle of that sign.  Align yourself against traffic and walk forward. Pass the first four way intersection you see. Continue walking forward and pass the second intersection you see. On your left will be a large building with glass windows. Touchdown is at the base of the double doors on the left. Go in the direction that has the buildings in the middle of the road creating a Y in the road. Go down the right side of this Y. You will pass an American flag on the left of you. At the next intersection make a right. Go straight down until you see a white box truck with green graffiti on the back of it on your right. Stop before this truck. Looking at this truck, you will see two red reflectors near the bottom half of it. Touchdown is on the red reflector on the left. Orient yourself with traffic and so the white and orange based fence is on your right. Continue down this road and take a left at the four way intersection. Walk forward to the next intersection and take a left  again. Keep walking down this road until you see orange and white barriers again on your left. Just past these you will see a single orange barrier next to a bike on your right. Touchdown is on top of the barrier at the middle. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.

Go to the first intersection and turn right.  You'll see a construction vehicle up ahead on the right.  Go straight under some flags, past some scaffolding on the right, blue bikes on the left and enter the intersection slightly ahead.  Turn right.

Go until you are even with the glass building business sign with a bunch of slanted white lines on it.  Just left of the glass sign is a blue circle sign with a vehicle in white on it.  Touchdown is on that blue circle sign. Turn so the bright blue on a building is just ahead of you on the right. Go straight to this intersection then make a right turn. Once you turn there is noticeable gold trim on a store on the left side. Go straight one block then turn right again. After you have turned there is a purple and orange striped awning to your right. This is a very long block but you won't get to the end of it. On the left you'll come up to a gap between buildings that has a gate and very small parking lot behind the gate. Keep straight a little further past the red umbrellas on the right. Look on the left again and you'll see a large door that is like a garage door. Go just past that. Now you should be next to some planters with bushes in them and slightly ahead of that is a pumpkin display behind some more planters.You should still see the orange bike ahead on the left but you are not next to it. Touchdown is on the seat of that bike.  Turn and go in the direction with the traffic. Turn left at intersection. Turn left again and you will be going toward cars. Scaffolding on the left and a yellow awning. Continue straight. There will be a bike parking on the right. When you get to the intersection there is a black garbage can to the left. Touchdown is on top.  Face the same direction as the cars that are parked on the sides of the road. Go straight to the stop sign. Take a right at the stop sign. There will be cars parked on both sides of the street and tall light brown buildings. Go straight, pass the very first stop sign at the crosswalk. You will then see an intersection with scaffolding on the left side. Go straight at this intersection. Once you pass through the intersection there will be cars parked on both sides facing inward toward the street. Go straight to the next intersection and take a left. Once you turn there will be orange and white construction barricades on your right. Go straight to the crosswalk. Stop directly in front of the crosswalk. Look to your left and you will see two blue mailboxes and three trash cans each with a different color lid. Touchdown will be sitting on to of the first trashcan, it has a green lid.  Turn so that the blue corner building is to your left. Walk straight. You need to go through the intersections. You should not make any turns. Eventually you should see a playground on your left. Walk past this fenced in area until you pass a brick building with a stone cross pattern on it to your left. You should be standing in front of a white building with a black fire escape. 

Facing the building you should see a black fire hydrant to your right in front of you. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant. Turn so you're facing down the street where the store with a red banner with white lettering is to your right and start walking. Go through the first intersection you encounter, and take a right at the next one.

To your left will be a building with red overhangs and plants in its windows, and to the right a stately building with interesting stonework above the windows.  Ahead you should see a blue flag on that building.

Walk until you're standing directly under that blue flag, so you can turn to your right and look up and see it above you.  The touchdown is exactly at the tip of the blue flag's pole. Turn to face the arch of the base of the bridge, and make a right. Get to the first traffic light where you see the scaffolding in front of you and make a right. The bridge is now on your right. Follow it down the street and make a right. You will now be under the bridge. Go straight, make a left at the light and stop. Touchdown is right on the green sign to your left, that is on the pole holding both the street light and traffic light. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Go straight through the first intersection.
You will see scaffolding and large barrier cones to the right.
Turn right at the next intersection.  You should see scaffolding ahead on the right and black awnings on your left.
A bit into the scaffolding, stop when you are next to a bike with an orange lock on your right.  Just ahead is a round blue sign on top of a pole.  Touchdown is hiding on this sign.
 Follow the street, going towards the red brick building with the scaffolding in front of it on your left. When you reach the intersection, find a way to work around the bug so you can go right.  Go right again at the next light. 

When you've just passed the small concrete median on your left, turn right and look ahead on the sidewalk, where you'll see a white capped hydrant between two steel bollards. Touchdown is atop the hydrant. Stand so that the orange posts are on your left, and you are moving against the flow of traffic. Move straight through the first intersection and continue in your same direction until you reach the second intersection. Here, you need to turn right and then take another right, so that you have made a u-turn.

Now you should have scaffolding with a green wall on your left. Move ahead into the first intersection you reach. Move right and stop in the center. In the median in front of you is a short yellow post. Touchdown is on top of the post. With traffic, go past the initial 3-way that branches left, to the light, and go left. Go through the first light and left at the second.  You will see four long blue banners with white at the bottom on your right. Rotate left.  

There's a green door in a white cement frame with a stylized bell at the apex. Touchdown sits atop that. Turn to face with traffic, then go straight until you reach an intersection. Turn right,  you will see a yellow 'M' on a flag a on the right side of the road, and a building with a red banner sign on your left. Now go to the next intersection, just past the M, with a restaurant with a fire escape on your right. Now turn right, and go forward until just past the clothing store on your left with a yellow and brown sign above the door, and a plant in a pot next to it. Touchdown is on the pot. Follow traffic to the light, passing a stone arch on your left on the way.  Go into the intersection, but stop before crossing the crosswalk on the other side.  You'll see a median with yellow signs with black arrows on your right.  To your left will be a small oval cement island with three yellow bollards with grey stripes.

Touchdown is on the center yellow bollard. Orient yourself so you are facing the garbage can and the white van, Move down the alley with the white van until you are in line with a gray van on your right and a silver sedan on your left, turn to your left and you will see two white and two orange construction barriers, click between the white and orange construction barriers to find touchdown  Turn yourself so you are facing the flow of traffic and go across the intersection passing a large fence on the right. 
Go straight until you come to an intersection. 
Turn right. 
Go straight, passing a brick building on your left with a short black fence in front of it. You should see a large clock up ahead on top of a building. 
Go straight until you come to an intersection. Turn right. 
Go straight, passing a brick building on your left with short black fencing. 
You will come to an intersection and turn right. This street has lots of trees and you will go straight passing under these trees. 
Continue to go straight until you get to a fence on the right side of the street with a painted blue green bottom. Right before being in front of this fence, you will see a yellow warning sign on the right side of the street. Touchdown is sitting on this sign on the lower rectangular part of the sign.  Position yourself in which there should be a few red awning on your right and a fence on your left. Follow the road till you arrive at an intersection and make a right turn. Once you made a right turn, continue forward and pass the red awning on your left. You should arrive at an intersection in which you should skip and press forward. Continue forward passing the blue awning on your left and you should come across another intersection. Make a right turn at this intersection. Once you made a right turn pass the blue and white stripes awning on your left, black awnings on your right, and eventually pass two trees on your right. You should notice a black pole on your right with blue stripe on top and some stickers on the side. Pass that and don't go any further. To your right is what seems like a black storage bin with three lids. The touchdown is sitting on top of the middle lid. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, and take a right at the intersection. Take a right at the next intersection, shortly after, you'll see a green housing for produce on your right. Touchdown is sitting on the corner closest to the way you came, of the awning. Orient yourself so that the college is on your right. Continue forward to the next intersection and take a left. You should see a tan building with large arched windows on your left. Continue for going straight past the first and second intersection. After you have passed the second intersection you should see scaffolding with a green awning on your left. Continue moving forward until you are just before the crosswalk of the next intersection. Look to your right and you'll see an empty bus stop. Touchdown is sitting all the way to the right side of the bench of the bus stop. Turn so that you're walking in the same direction that the cars are driving. Go straight until the next intersection, then turn right. Go straight until the next intersection and turn right again. Go down the block to the next intersection again and turn right one more time. There will be a blue sign indicating a bus stop on your right. Touchdown is on the blue bus stop sign. Follow the flow of traffic to the next intersection.  Turn right.  At next intersection, turn right.  Continue until you reach the next intersection (Ignore the small street on right and left).  Once in the intersection turn right, and stop.  There is a wire trash can with a white trash bag.  The bear is on the label on the can. Turn yourself away from the intersection, and go with traffic down the narrow, one-way street. Along the way, you will pass some construction on your left. Keep going.  You will see a row of blue rental bikes just before you come to an intersection. Go right at that intersection. There should now be a bright red awning on your right. Go a short ways down the street until you see another red awning, a green awning, and a blue awning on your right. On the sidewalk in front of the red awning is a parking meter.  Touchdown is sitting on the meter. Turn so the gray marble wall and brick sidewalk are on your left.  Go forward, past the orange cones on your left, and into the intersection.  Stop when you're in the middle of the intersection.  Turn to look at the corner slightly behind you on your left.  There is a blue mailbox dispenser.  The bear is on top of the dispenser.   Turn so you are going the same direction as traffic. Go straight until you reach the first intersection. Turn left. You will be heading the same way as traffic. When you reach the first intersection keep going straight. Right before you reach the next stop light which is for pedestrians, stop. There is no cross street here. You will see a mural painted on the building to the right that is blue and has a rainbow on it. There is a white cloud painted on it too. Touchdown is in the middle of the white cloud. Get turned so the scaffolding is on your right side and move straight to the first intersection. Make a right turn. Once you are turned now there is scaffolding on the left side. Go straight. The next intersection has a yellow dumpster on the left side as you approach it. Keep straight through this intersection.  You'll see some orange construction barrels and an orange and white barrier on the right ahead. Keep going until the next intersection. Make a right turn. After you turn there are black awnings on the building to the left of you. Go just a little way. You will see a bus stop shelter on the right. Go just past that right before the scaffolding starts  on the right side and come to a stop. Look on the right side in the bus shelter on the bench. Touchdown is in the middle seat.  Orient yourself with traffic such that scaffolding is on your right. Proceed forward to the first intersection and turn right. At the next intersection, turn right again. Stop just before the scaffolding on the right. There should be a number of bikes on your left. Directly to your right should be a round, green, planter with a small tree. Touchdown is where the tree visibly meets the dirt. Orient yourself so you are moving against the flow of traffic, with orange and white barrier cones on your right.
Turn right at the next intersection, and you should have orange and white barriers to your left.
Turn right at the next intersection.  When you do, you'll see black rollup doors on your right with a national flag on the corner.

Go straight just past the tree that is boxed in with orange netting to the orange and white barriers.  To your right is an exposed pipe with a blue object in it.  Touchdown is covering the blue object. Turn so the business with the green awning is on your right. Head straight down this street. When you come to the first intersection take a right. Go straight until you hit the intersection. Take another right. Here there will a business to your right with a yellow awning and a graffiti wall on your left. Go straight down this street. Stop when you come to a sign with two yellow squares(one is larger and at an angle). Touchdown is sitting on the red car parked just to the left of that sign. He is on the very back middle of the roof above the licence plate.  Turn yourself so the building trimmed in blue is on your right and start down that street.  You will also see a storefront with a yellow painted base on your left. Turn right at intersection.  You will pass a building with a green door on your right.  You will pass a fenced in playground area on your right.  Go straight through intersection.  You will see a fenced off parking area on your left. Near the end of the parking lot you will see several silver metal boxes on the sidewalk to your left.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the first one you get to. Orient yourself with the green fencing to the left. Take a left at the intersection. Go straight and pass by the iron wall on the right. At the end of the iron wall, stop. There is a newly fixed manhole cover in front of you toward the right. Touchdown is sitting on it. Go down the road with purple flags draping off a building on the right side.  Take a right at the slanted intersection. Take another right onto the road with a pink bus lane on the right. Stop at the next intersection. Touchdown is to the right of some bikes parked in the middle to the left. Keeping the overhead bridge to your left, go in the same direction as traffic. Go through a 4 way intersection, then a 3 way. Go through another 4 way, followed by another 3 way. Enter the middle of the very next 4 way. Turning to look down the street to your right, see a red rectangle on the corner of the sidewalk to your left. Touchdown is in the middle of it.  Move into the intersection. Take a left. There will be plastic wrapped wooden boxes on the right side with orange and white construction barriers. Go one block. Turn left.  Go all the way down this block that is a little longer. When you reach this intersection turn left again. After you turn there is a business with a tiled roof that is wavy and bumpy on the left side. There are several bikes on the right side. Go just a little more than halfway down this block then stop. Do not go to the next intersection. You should be right next to a tree on the right side of the street that has a crook in it but has no low branches. Touchdown is right where the tree is bent. Go into the road and turn right so that you are going to go under the bridge. Go under the bridge and turn right at the first traffic light you come to.At the next traffic light turn right again In the middle of the next intersection stop and look to your right.You will see a U.S.Mailbox and Touchdown is sitting on top of the mailbox Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the garbage truck on your left. Continue forward to the intersection and take a left. You should see a row of three American flags on the building to your right. Continue forward to the next intersection and take a left. Continue down this road passing the scaffolding on the right in the parking garage on the left proceed until you reach the intersection. Take a left at the intersection and you should see a bank on your left and a row of potted plants on the right. Move forward until you see the traffic cone on the right on the sidewalk and a red potted plant in front of that stop once you have reached the orange traffic cone. Click the traffic cones to find touchdown. Turn so that you are facing the aircraft carrier in the distance. Walk forward to the intersection and turn right. There should be a bridge in front of you. Walk under the bridge to the next intersection and turn right. There should be a green lamp post to your left. Walk forward down the street. Stop when you are standing in the crosswalk before the intersection. Turn left. You should see a black fire hydrant with a silver cap in front of you to the left. Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant. Position yourself so the orange sign is on your right and you're moving with the flow of traffic. At the first light, turn right.  This puts two bikes and a fire hydrant on your right.

Go straight to the next intersection, and turn right. it's a very sharp turn. You're sort of heading back in the direction you came from, but at an angle. After you turn, you'll be moving with traffic down a one-way street. When this street ends, turn right. 

After you turn, you'll see a row of green park benches on your left and two wooden benches in front of a store on your right. Go to the next intersection, and stop in the middle. There is a steel trash bin on your left on the corner. Touchdown is sitting right on top of it.  Turn until the two blue mailboxes are to your right. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. There should be a line of trees on your left and a parking lot on your right. Walk down the street until you pass a bunch of wooden pallets. Turn and face left. You should see a pink sign with a dog with a red collar on it. Touchdown is on top of the dog's head. Get turned so the bikes are on your left side. Go straight to the intersection. Make a right turn. You are going the correct way as traffic flows on this road. Go straight through the first intersection. Go straight through the 2nd intersection. Go straight again at the 3rd intersection. You should now pass a large overhang on the left that has gold on it. Get to the next intersection and stop before you are in the middle of it. Look to your left and the wall has some geometric pattern on it. There are green and a blue topped recycling bins of some sort.. Touchdown is on top of the blue one.  Go WITH flow and LEFT at the SECOND light.  There will initially be a green wall behind k-walls on your left and scaffolding on your right.  PASS THROUGH the light. 

STOP when you get to a gap in the scaffolding and k-walls on your right, and can see a red dumpster and very bright green walls behind it, through the gap, and brown metal shipping containers on grey and blue shipping containers to the left of it. You should see a white and red vertical flag on the lamp post with a green leaf.

FIND Touchdown on green leaf of banner on lamp post ahead and to your right. Orient yourself so that the overhang is to your right. Turn left immediately at the intersection. Go straight until you reach the following intersection. At this intersection turn right but then immediately left again; it's sort of like going straight. Go To your left there should be five bushes. Touchdown is on the farthest bush from the intersection. You're starting in an intersection, so turn so that you're traveling down the street that places a brick building with large windows and a black sign on your right and a business with a striped awning and green doors on your left. Go straight, passing orange construction barriers on your right and scaffolding on your left. Right before you get to the intersection, you'll see a small tree on your right. Touchdown is at the very top of the tree.  Follow the flow of traffic and turn left at the first intersection. Stop at the next intersection and look to your left. There is a blue mailbox on your left. The touchdown is on the white emblem.  Follow traffic, with the Jersey wall to the right and go left at the light. Go all the way to the next light but stop at the crosswalk before entering the intersection.

Look to your left, for a single orange and white barrel in front of the concrete traffic barrier. Touchdown is atop it. Orientate yourself facing in the same direction of traffic sand the median with trees and vegetation growing in it is ahead of you and to your left.

Start by stepping slightly to left and ahead, so that said median is directly to your left.
Continue ahead going straight through the first traffic light .

At the second traffic light turn right . After completing your turn Stop. Look to your right and see the black fire hydrant with a grey top flanked by two grey bollards.
Touchdown is atop that fire hydrant.
 Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Head to the nearest intersection.  Turn right.  Stop just before you enter the intersection, and look left.  The bear is on top of the trash can with a small white bag sticking out. Face the nearest intersection and proceed through it. Turn right at the next light. Travel through the parked cars and stop just before exiting. There is a tall rectangular sign with black and yellow chevrons. Touchdown is on top of this sign. You will start of at an intersection. To begin, make sure you are going in the direction of the blue and white van with orange cones around it. Pass that van. Go straight through the first intersection you get to. You will come to a light at an intersection where there is a building with a green awning. Take a right. Go straight until you are in the middle of the intersection. In front of you, there is a building with a red sign above the entrance. Touchdown Bear is in the middle of that sign. Begin moving with traffic so the steps going up to black wrought iron gates in front of dark red doors are on your right. At the first traffic light in front of you, turn right.

At the next traffic light, turn right again. After you turn, a small fenced in parking area will be on your right on the corner.

Turn right again at the following intersection. A bicycle with a cart behind it by a tree will be on your right after you turn.

You're going to make one final right turn at the next traffic light. Right after you turn, you'll see a few bikes up ahead on your right. Look for the child's bike with the green tire. Touchdown is sitting on the sidewalk right in front of that light green tire. From the starting position, turn so that you are facing the same direction traffic in your lane is moving in. If you look to your right there should be a green wall. Move straight on this ramp until you are almost to the water. You'll see a softball field with dirt down off the right side of the bridge. Touchdown is sitting where home plate is on the diamond. Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic, and cross through this intersection.  Straight through the next one as well.  Turn left after that one.  There will be bike rentals on your right.  Continue forward.  On your left there is a building with blue lines under the windows.  Pass that building and look left.  There is a green rectangle on the wall, maybe forward hookup.  The bear is on it. Turn so the park is on your left, and move forward to the intersection.  Make a right, and you'll now have a shop with an orange awning on your right, and one with a yellow awning on your left.  This is your target block.  Watch on the left side.  After the yellow awning is a brick building with some graffiti.  Just beyond that is a shop with a brown striped awning.  Stop when you're even with the brown striped awning.  The bear is in the center of this awning.  Orient yourself so you are going with the flow of traffic. Proceed to the intersection in front of you and make a right.

There should now be a store with a blue and white striped awning to your right and a yellow cab car in front of you. Go straight down this long one way street and stop in the very middle of the intersection.

There will be a stoplight and a black fence in front of you. You should see a black trashcan to the right of the stoplight. The touch down is on the black trash can, on top. Go in the direction that will have red awnings on both sides of you. Turn right at the first intersection. Go straight through the next intersection. You will pass a large brown delivery truck on the left of you. Just ahead of this truck on the left you will see a green temporary construction awning, stop just past this awning. Turn to the left to see a tiny store. To the right of this store there is a red pole sticking out of the ground and at the curb you see a black trash bag. The trash bag appears to come to a point at the top, touchdown is placed at this point. Turn so you're walking with the flow of traffic. Go to the nearby intersection and turn left. Go all the way to the next intersection, then turn left again. At the next intersection turn left one more time. Half way down the block will be some scaffolding on the right. Just past that scaffolding in front of a white store with an open door is a fire hydrant. Touchdown is sitting on top of that fire hydrant. Orient yourself in the direction of the red awning ahead to your right. Go straight through the first intersection. Take a left at the intersection with construction barriers to the right. Take a left again at the next intersection which has a red store to the right. At the following intersection, stop. There is a yellowish store flag to the right. Touchdown is on top of this flag. Orient yourself in the direction of the building with the water tower on top of it ahead. Take a right at the first intersection. Go straight toward a yellow framed building up ahead. Once you reach its intersection, turn right. Go straight just a little bit. There is a yellow pole ahead and to your right. Touchdown is on top of the pole. Turn yourself so you are facing traffic.  You will see a large blue door on your left and start down the street.  Turn left at intersection.  You will see another blue door on your left as you start down this street.  You will pass a blue and white striped awning on your right.  You will pass a reddish dumpster on your left.  As you approach the next intersection, you will see a blue awning on your left.  Just past the awning is a traffic light pole on your left with a green box attached to it.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the green box. Turn until the mailbox and newspaper boxes are on your right. Walk forward into the intersection and turn left. You should see a blue dumpster in front of you to the right. Walk forward to the next intersection. When you get there turn left. You should see shoes hanging on the wire in front of you. Walk forward until there is a blue building on your left. Turn and face the blue building. Touchdown is in the air conditioner in the lower left most window of the blue building. Face the flow of traffic, with the orange/white cones to your right and make a right at the intersection. Pass the store on your right that has red letters and continue down the block, passing scaffolding and stopping when you reach that first intersection. On your left, Touchdown will be at the base of the garbage bin. Face the same direction of the one way traffic there should be a building with white pillars on your right. Go to the intersection and take a left. You will be on a round with concrete barriers on your right and trees with wood boxes around them on the left. Go straight passing the street to your right and continuing straight. You will see a purple flag on your right and past that is two trees on the right leaning over toward the road. In between these two trees is a black double door and gold kick guards. Touchdown will be on the door knob. Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Head to the nearest intersection.  Turn left.  Take the next left.  Cross through one intersection.  Stop just before you get to the pictures of the models on the side of the building on the right.  The bear is on the 1st mans eye glasses. follow the traffic direction, go straight pass this intersection. Now you should see a white van parked on the right side of the road with two orange/white traffic cones next to the van. Go that direction, then soon on the left side of the road you will see a store with dark red awning and white letters, next to it there is a store with black awning with white letters. Both of them have clothes handing. On the black awning there are two bowtie shaped symbols. The touch down is on the left bowtie.  Follow traffic to the light and go right. At the next light, go right again. You should see white and orange k-walls to your right.  Walk to just before the blue dumpster with very colorful artwork on the front on your right, where you can look ahead and left and see a white pavilion tent.

Touchdown is atop the tip of the white tent. Turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  There should be some scaffolding and a red sign on your right.  

Walk forward, and keep going until you reach an intersection.  Stop in the middle of the intersection and turn to your right.  There should be scaffolding with a green awning on the right, and a lamppost with an orange diamond sign on the left.  

Walk onto this road, keeping the scaffolding and two blue mailboxes on your right. 

Walk forward until you come to another intersection.  Stop, and turn to your right.  You should now be facing down a narrow street.  On the left is a white shop with blue lettering.  On the right is an orange and purple striped awning.  Walk down the narrow road between these shops.  

Walk forward a bit further.  You will pass a sign with glowing red letters on your right.  Just past that sign are some red umbrellas in front of a building. Walk forward until you can see the nearest umbrella clearly, and Touchdown the Bear is sitting right on top of its highest point. Turn so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  When you come to the first intersection go straight through. There should be a bright blue building on your left. Once you are through the intersection watch the left side. Parked in front of the blue building is a food stand. Stop in front of it.

 Touchdown is on the corner of it closest to you and furthest from the intersection you just came through. Orient yourself so you are facing the same direction as traffic, there is a green dumpster to your left.

There are no turns on this route, so go straight ahead to the first traffic light.
Pass directly through this traffic light to the intersection and next traffic light just ahead and cross to the other side of the intersection, stopping in the crosswalk.

There is a storefront to the left with four mannequins in the window, Touchdown is on the head of the mannequin closest to the left.
 Turn to go with traffic and having the restaurant with the yellow sign on your left. continue down this street to the intersection. Take a left here, there are blue awnings on your left and shops on your right , at the next intersection take a left, the building on your right has gold letting on its sign, you will be heading with traffic down a one way, there are multiple stores on each side, but on the left there is one with clothing and merchandise outside, there is an open paper fan in the middle of the items, bear is on that fan Turn and follow traffic down the street. Go straight at the intersection. There will be a green dumpster on your left. Turn left at the intersection. Construction barriers on your right. Turn left at intersection onto  cobble stone road. When you get to the next intersection there are  orange and white cones on the left. Touchdown is sitting on top of the first one you come to.  Orient yourself so that there are large trees on either sides of you as well as metal fencing along the sidewalks of both sides of the street.  Proceed forward.  You will pass through one stoplight.  When you reach the second stoplight, turn right.  There will be a park on your right and a store on tan/brown store on your left.  Move forward until you are just past a church with three red door on your left and there is a stoplight ahead of you.  Turn to face the church with the red doors.  The middle red door has brown bricks outlining the entryway, and the central brick has a cross in it.  Touchdown is sitting on top of that brown block with a cross.
 Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Move ahead to the intersection, and turn left. Go forward to the next intersection and turn left again. Move to the next intersection and again, turn left. Move to the next intersection (where your street dead-ends) and step all the way into it and stop. In front of you to your right is a black sign with a white arrow. Touchdown is on that sign. Turn until the brick building is to your right and the big blue billboard is to your left. Walk until you reach the next intersection with the gas station on the corner. Turn right so that the gas station is on your left. Walk straight until you reach the next intersection. At the intersection turn right so you are looking down the ramp that goes under the bridge. There should be orange dividers to your right. Walk down the ramp until you see a red sign and two green signs in front of you on a bridge. Turn and face the way you just came. There should be a fire hydrant tucked into the wall on your left. Touchdown is placed on top of the fire hydrant. Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. There should be construction going on to your left.

2. Go forward, and when you reach the intersection, take a right. Stop after that.

3. Turn around to face the street that you came from. There should be a lamppost very close to you with a white, square sign with a red circle in it and a piece of green tape in the middle of it. Touchdown is in the very center of this sign on the tape.

Good luck! :) Go with traffic flow through the first intersection and turn left at the one that follows. 

Go to the next corner and turn left. When you turn there is scaffolding on your right and a store with big red letters on your left. 

Go down this road, past the blue awnings on the left, just past the scaffolding on the right. Just past the scaffolding on the right are two open doors for parking. Just beyond that is a closed garage door. To the right of the closed garage door is a round white sign with a black letter and a red circle with a red line slashed through that letter. Touchdown is in the middle of that sign.
 Turn with traffic, there is an intersection , take a right here, there is a building with large windows with white abstract lines in them,go to the next intersection and take a right. On your right will be a store with a blue and white circle on their logo, the bear is on that logo Position yourself so the white building with blue awning is on your right. Turn right at the first intersection. After you turn, a white business with colorful buildings painted on it will be on your left. Take this to the next intersection and turn right again. 

After you turn, a parking lot will be on your right. Go straight through the next intersection, but stop immediately after and look to the left. A red fire hydrant is just after the crosswalk on your left. Touchdown is waiting for you on top of the fire hydrant.  Starting out is going to be a little tricky here as there are multiple roads in various directions. Position yourself so there is a bus stop on your left and a blue awning with white writing on your right. Look to your right, and you'll see a road practically running parallel to the one you're on. You want to get on that street. So, step out into the intersection, turn right, and right again immediately. A successful turn puts the fenced in basketball courts on your left. 

Go straight down this long block. Shortly ahead, there will be more basketball courts on your right. Then,you pass fenced in parking on your left.When you get to the first intersection on this street, step into the middle of it and stop. There is a median on your right with a few trash bags beside a light pole. Touchdown is sitting on the ground in front of that center trash bag that's closest to you. Align yourself so that the subway entrance is on your left. Head down this street to the next intersection, where you'll make another left. A few steps in you should be at the entrance of a fancy shop on your left. To the left of the entrance in front is a blue post box. Touchdown is on top of the box. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
At the dead end (black fencing), turn left).  Go forward until just before the road splits and you should see 4 red octagon signs ahead.  Touchdown is on the right most of these signs. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, and you'll head up to the 3rd intersection, going straight through two. At the third, you'll make a left.

There should be a closed lane on your left and scaffolding on your right. head up to the construction barrels on your right, and stop at the moped just before them. Touchdown is on the headlight of the moped. Follow the flow of traffic and turn left at the intersection. Go forward and turn left at the third intersection. Continue forward until you see a cafe on your left. The touchdown is onthe 'C53' sign on the front of the walkway sign.  From the starting position, turn so you are facing the same direction that traffic is moving. You'll see an intersection in the distance. Once you get to the intersection, turn left. Go straight until you hit the first street light. At this intersection, turn left down a narrow one way street. You'll pass a long line of blue bikes on your left. Move down the street past the bikes, past the green scaffolding on the right. Continue down the street until you are even with a blue and white brick building on your left. The building has multiple entrances for cars. If you look at the blue/white building, you'll see a large set of windows with a few security cameras over them. Touchdown is on the left security camera. Turn to move with traffic,go to the 1st intersection and take a right. there are construction barriers on the right,go to the next intersection and take a right, there will be a red dumpster on your left. Go straight through 2 intersections, at the 3rs, across the street on the right is a blue newspaper box next to a crosswalk, the bear is on that box Align yourself with the flow of traffic on this street. Ignore the intersection ahead, and take a left at the next intersection. Make another left at the following intersection.

You'll head down this road a little more than halfway, passing the green awnings and Park sign on your left. Stop in front of a large red door on your right, and you should see a little statue on the bottom right of the entrance. Touchdown is on the head of the statue. With the big intersection ahead, take a right and go straight. Take another right and go straight. There should be a parking lot to your left. Go past it. There is a red awning hidden under some tree branches to the left. Touchdown is sitting in the gap. Orient yourself with traffic and make an immediate left at the intersection. Follow this street and make a left at the next intersection. Stop after leaving the intersection. There should be a bench on the sidewalk on the right. Touchdown occupies the center seat. Orient yourself with traffic on the one way street. Turn left at the end of the block. Turn left again at the next intersection. Turn left again at the next intersection after that so you have made three lefts in a row. After making the third left, there is a green painted lane on the far right of the street and green scaffolding on the left. Proceed down the street until you see a parked motorcycle on the right in between two cars and just before the end of the scaffolding that is on the left. Touchdown is on the seat of the motorcycle.  Orient yourself so that you see green wood and metal scaffolding on your left side and blue and grey metal boxes on your right. Go down this road. You will pass one crosswalk. Keep going. When you come to the next four way intersection, turn right. You should see a building marked with a yellow sign that has red and blue lettering on your right. Go down this road until you come to the next intersection. Take another right. The building on your right will have plywood in the windows and scaffolding on your left. Keep going down this road until you come to a wood and orange mesh box on your right. Behind the box you will see a doorway in the plywood. Touchdown is on the top left corner of the doorway. go against traffic keeping the blue scaffolding to your right,go to the 1st intersection and take a left. there will be a park on your right, you will come to a T at the crosscut, continue through it and head to the next intersection, at this intersection, across the street to your right is a building with red doors, the bear is on the 1st red door handle 
 turn yourself so the park is on your right and start down the street.  Continue straight past the turnoff on your right.  the pavement will change color as you move forward. A red telephone box will appear on your right as you move down the street.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the red telephone box. Orient yourself so you are facing the same way the cars are travelling, and there's a large green awning coming from the building on your left.  Go forward and go straight through the intersection you can see from the start.  Continue down the block for a very long way, until you reach the next intersection, and turn right.  After the turn, ahead on your right should be a yellow pentagon shaped sign that has two black figures walking on it.  Touchdown is at the point of the sign. Orient yourself in which you should notice three orange cones on your right. Continue forward and skip this intersection you come across too. Eventually you should arrive at an intersection with tons of advertisement. Make a right turn at this intersection. Continue forward on this road passing the scaffolding on your left till you arrive at the intersection. Pass the first crosswalk that you come across and stop. To your left on the walkway behind you. There seems to be  gray box near a light pole. The touchdown is on top of the box. Turn so you can drive in the same direction as traffic then turn left.  There will be large bright signs on your left with one that curves around the building.  Drive down this road, going past the building on the left with all the glass windows.   Turn left at that intersection keeping the glass building on your left.  Watching the right side of the road, go about half way down the street and watch for an area with an opening and a very large tree.  Near the road there is a single green post with a round blue sign on it.  There is some red near the bottom of the circle.  Touchdown is in the middle of the round blue sign. Start by turning yourself so that you're facing the direction of traffic on your right side. When turned correctly, you should see a building with a red sign down the way to your left. Walk straight until you reach an intersection.

When you reach the intersection, you should see a building with large green awnings to your left, and a brick building with a large yellow and brown logo to your right. Turn left here. 

Once turned, there should be yellow and white construction border to your right. Walk straight down this road until you reach an intersection. 

At this intersection, you should see a building with a striped awning to your left. Walk straight through this intersection, stopping when you reach this building. Near the building with the striped awning, you should see on the side a diamond shaped, orange traffic sign. Touchdown is sitting at the bottom of the pole. 

 Follow the traffic on the street with the green bike lane. Turn left at the intersection. Go straight until you see a phone store on the left and an athletics store on the right. To the right you will see a bus stop sign ahead of you. Touchdown is on the round blue part of the sign.  Follow the flow of traffic and turn left at the first intersection. Turn right at the next intersection and then stop. There should be a park in front of you. The touchdown is on the bottom of a black trash can at the base of a traffic pole on your left and forward.  If you are in the correct position there will be buildings on each side of you obviously. However the buildings on the right are not made of brick like the ones on the left. The ones on the right include one with a wooden brown double door and a white double door. The ones on the left have single doors. And there is a green awning that stretches the length of the sidewalk to the street.
Once you are in position head straight.
Head to the first intersection then make a right.
Head towards the next intersection and make another right.
You will continue straight for a distance. Eventually on your right side will be a white building with black bars around it. In front of this building is a green dumpster with a blue tarp on top of it. Touchdown is sitting in front of the left corner of the dumpster on the ground closest to you when you're standing with the white building to your right. Position yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic. A long row of blue rental bikes will be on your left.  Turn left at the first intersection. At the next intersection, turn left again.  You'll be on a one-way street with building on your left that has a white diamond pattern on a silver background all over it. 

Continue down this road until you see a door to a business on the right with colorful balloons on either side. Just past this is two orange construction cones in the road on your right. Touch is on the first orange cone you arrive at.  Face against the flow of traffic and go forward. Go straight through the first intersection and turn left at the second. You will go through the next intersection and then stop before another. There should be a blue dumpster on your right. The touchdown is on the front wheel of the car parked behind the dumpster. Follow traffic down the one way street with the store with the white sign band and red glyphs on the right corner.  Go to the end of the block and go right. At the next light, go right.  At the end of that block, right again.

Stop when the store with the white sign band with blue glyphs with a red shadow is directly to your right. Slightly ahead of you on the right is a black hydrant with a white cap.  Touchdown is on the cap. Position yourself so you are looking at the intersection just in front of you. A long red sign will be on the building to your left and a yellow sign will be on the building on your right. Turn left at that intersection in front of you. The next intersection you get to is a very long one with two sets of lights and multiple streets. Just ignore all of them and keep going straight. 

When you get to the following intersection, you're going to turn left. You'll know you're at the correct one when there's a red building on your left with a sign made of blue writing, and on your right is a gray striped business with three flags extending from it. 

Right after you turn left, you'll see a red bicycle chained to a pole on your right side. Touchdown is sitting on the bicycle seat.  Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Head to the nearest intersection.  Turn right.  Pass the subway entrance and look left.  Bear on top of fire hydrant.   With traffic, enter the intersection and go left.  The store with neon red letters will be to your left.

Go left at the next light, and left again at the one after that. Scaffolding will be to your left.

Stop when you're directly in front of the glass entry canopy on the left and face it head on.  To the right of it is a small black plaque in gold framing, which Touchdown is adhered to. Orient yourself so the black fence and brick building are on your right and the chain link fence are on your left. go straight. at the second intersection make a right.  Make a right at the stop sign. Go straight until you are at the brisge intersection. there will be a red bus on your left, under the bridge. Youll make a right here. At the very next intersection. there will be a grey building on the left with mint green paint near the door. the touchdown is located in the middle of the blue doors. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the scaffolding on your left. Continue forward to the next intersection and go straight. You should see a tan building with the red fire escape on your right. Continue forward to the next intersection and take a right. You should see it orange traffic cone on the sidewalk to the right in front of you and a blue building on your left. Continue forward to the next intersection and take another right. You should see a red bus lane on to the road to your right and a green bike lane to the far left. On your right side  look for two bicycles leaning up against a sign pole. When you are in line with the bicycles, stop. Look to your right and you will see a building with a black and red striped awning. Touchdown is in the circular logo in the middle of the striped awning. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic, facing the intersection next to you.  Go straight through that intersection.  Move forward, you will pass a couple of national flags on the right.  Come to a stop in the next intersection and you should see a structure with pink signs ahead on the right and a row of blue bikes ahead on the left.

Looking to the left corner, you will find Touchdown hiding on the blue newspaper box. Face the intersection directly in front of you and turn right at it. 

Go through the first intersection but turn right at the second one.

When you turn, there are red awnings on your right and a building with bright green trim on your left. Move so you can face the building with the red awnings. On the windows of this building on the right that has the red awnings is a white painted circle with white lettering. Touchdown is inside that circle.
 Follow traffic into the light and go left.  Go left again at the next light.  There will be a fenced in park with colorful play equipment to your left. Pass the 3-way intersection and go left at the next light and forward until you're at the crosswalk to the street with the metal window guard with the vibrantly painted mural on it to your left and the white building with green awning to your right.  

On the right corner is a green trashcan, which Touchdown is atop. With the booth and purple overhang to the right, go straight. Bear right along the curving road. When you reach an intersection that has a statue to the left and a bight blue themed building to the right, take the second right (not the first). Go straight and when you see a scaffolding and partially completed building, take a right. You will see a purplish tree to the left. Touchdown is on the base of the trunk of that tree. Position yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic. A long green awning above a door will be on your left. Take this road all the way down to the first intersection and turn left. As soon as you turn, you'll see a black and gray fire hydrant on your left. Touchdown is sitting at the ground at the base of that hydrant.  Go in the same direction as traffic. Go right at the first intersection, and right again at the next one. There is a red awning ahead to your left. Stop just before getting to the awning in before it, a red,brown,white designed one with clothes in the store windows. Touchdown is sitting at the top of the brown post with a blue stripe on the sidewalk in front of the awning. Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic, and go through the intersection.  Take the next left.  Follow this street for a while, but take the next left.  Take a couple steps forward, but face right.  There is a wooden structure built around a tree.  To the left is a fire hydrant.  Bear on top.   Follow traffic and go right at the second light, IN THE WRONG LANE going against traffic. Stop when you're directly in front of the blue entry canopy to your left and rotate to face it.  

Touchdown is in the center of the white half-circle at its center. Orient yourself with traffic and proceed forward. Turn left at the intersection. Then go to the next intersection and turn left. Proceed forward until a multilane parking garage is on your left. A man stands in the lane and Touchdown is by his feet. Orient yourself so that you are moving opposite of traffic, into the tunnel. Continue until you exit the tunnel and keep moving in the same direction. You'll pass under 3 lit up red lights and keep moving. Soon you'll come to what looks like a green small pedestrian crossing above you. Move directly under it. On your right is a white rectangular box next to a support beam. Touchdown is on the rectangle. With the scaffolding on your right, go into the intersection and turn left.  Go to the next intersection and turn left.  There will be blue bikes on your left.  This block is long, go most of the way down until you see an orange-red building to your right.   It has a wheelchair ramp.  Touchdown is in the center of the white sign in the planter to the left of the wheelchair ramp. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, and head to the intersection to make a left, then another left shortly after.

Head down to the first intersection on this road, and make another left. Stop before the orange and white construction barrels on your right, and you should see a red moped behind them. Touchdown is on the middle of the seat of the red moped. You should be able to find the bear easily if you are standing in this spot, but if you can still see the orange fronts of the signs, you might not be able to find him.  You should be facing an intersection, and an empty lot with a large yellow excavator should be on your right.  Walk forward and stop in the middle of the intersection.  

Turn right and walk down the narrow road with a bike lane.  That empty lot and excavator should be on your right, and there should be clothes racks on the sidewalk on your left.  Now just take a long straight walk down this street.  If you see flags hanging from buildings on both sides of the street, you are on the right track.  

Eventually you will come to a long line of blue bicycles on your left.  Move forward until you have just passed the last bike in the line.  Please make sure that you are standing between a silver food cart on your left and a yellow cart (with a red sombrero logo) on your right.  You might not be able to find the bear if you have gone past that first yellow cart.

There should also be a black fire hydrant between two short poles directly to your left.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this hydrant. Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic, and head to the nearest intersection.  At first street, turn left, then stay left.  As you move forward pass the street on your right.  There is a red box around the base of a tree, continue forward.  Stop as you pass the picture of people walking across the street (Sign on your right).  Look right, there is a door with 6 windows.  The bear is in the bottom left window.   Head in the same direction as traffic/the way the parked cars are pointed. Go to the intersection and turn right.  There will be a bunch of scaffolding up ahead on your right.  Head down this street until you start two see construction barricades and lighted construction arrow signs.  This is the intersection where you will need to stop.  Stop just before you enter the intersection.  There will be orange and white striped concrete barricades on your right.  Turn 90 degrees to your right.  There are some advertising posters on the second floor windows of this building.  One of them is hands full of blackberries.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this pile of blackberries.   Head into the intersection that is very close. Go straight across and keep going straight. When you cross there is a white door that is open on your right side and a building with large windows on the left side. When you reach the next intersection turn right. You will see some umbrellas that have blue and yellow on the right side of the road. Go straight to the next intersection and make a right turn again. On your left is a building with large tall columns. You will come to a 3 way intersection. Keep going straight a short distance. Right after that intersection you will see a small orange piece of construction equipment behind a fence. Touchdown is on the ground in the middle of that. Orient yourself with traffic and proceed forward. Turn right at the first intersection. Turn right at the next one as well. Cross the next intersection and stop by the first sidewalk tree on the right. Touchdown is at this tree's base. Turn so you are heading with the flow of traffic.  Take the first left.  Now go straight through one intersection.  Take a few more steps, and stop before the building with the green top on the right.  Look right.  There is a red fire hydrants.  The bear is on top. Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic, and take your first right.  Go through one intersection and continue forward.  You will pass a parking structure on your left.  Continue.  Pass building with yellow top (Left). Continue.  Building on the left has plants along the window.  Stop 1 step past them.  Look back at the plants.  There is a small light on the wall between and above them.  The bear is there. Turn so you're facing the intersection that's very close to you.  There is a sort of airplane-hangar shaped building off to the left through the intersection you're facing.  Go straight through the intersection. When you're just through the intersection, keep an eye on the right side of the road.  You'll see what looks like a blocked off driveway or small road to the right.  There are metal barricades and a few orange traffic poles/cones.  You'll be able to make a slight right turn into that area.  Once you're in that driveway/road area, go straight (more or less the same direction you'd been heading out on the main road).  You'll end up in an underpass under part of the building.  As you go through the underpass, look to your right.  You'll pass one trash can on the right.  The bear is on the second trash can on your right.  Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the pizza shop with the purple awning on your left. Continue forward down this road passing the three-way intersection. Just before the four-way intersection you should see a  row of blue bikes on your left. Proceed to the intersection and take a right. You should see a gray high rise building to the right of you and green scaffolding on the left. Proceed to the next intersection and take a right and then immediately stop. Turning to your right you should see a black trash bin at the corner of the crosswalk.  click the base of the black trash can to find touchdown. Face the bridge and go down the road under it. Pass the stop signs and make a right, with the fenced in parking lot now on your left. Stop and look to your left, at the silver pole that is near the grate. Touchdown will be on the left side of the base, of the silver pole . Follow traffic and go right at the light. Go right at the turn AFTER the next one (there will be a brick building with arches over each window and door and a smooth tan wall for the second story), and make one final right at the light thereafter.

To your left is a fenced in basketball court and park.  Stop when you're in front of the second building on the right, which is a red-brick. Don't go past the black doors on your right.  Rotate right.  Touchdown is affixed to the square yellow sign on the red-brick in front of you. Turn so you are facing the same direction that the cars are parked on this road.  Travel down the road and turn right at the first intersection.  Travel to the next intersection and turn right.  Continue down this one way road watching for an opening on the left followed by a building painted green.  Stop at the end of the green building.  There is a parking meter with a blue stripe around the top.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the parking meter in front of the green wall.
 Orient yourself so that there is a long row of blue bikes on your right. You will go straight down this street (into/against the traffic) and make a right at the first intersection.Go straight again and make another right at the next intersection. There will be a fabric store on the left and pizza place on the right. The touchdown is located on the banner of this pizza place. The banner is blue. Its in the middle. Orient yourself with traffic and proceed, turning right at the intersection. Turn right again at the first light. Go straight at the stop sign at the first intersection then turn right at the next intersection. This street is brick. Turn right at the stop sign. Stop just before the next stop sign. A red fire hydrant with silver top should be on your left. Touchdown is on its silver cap. Turn so the red awning is on your left and go all the way down this long block. At the intersection turn right. You will see some blue red and white flags ahead on the right. Go one block then make another right turn. Once you turn the building on the right has a mirror then a window and keeps alternating like that. Stop before you reach the yellow awning on the right side.  You won't quite be to the garage opening on the right either. Look directly right and you'll see a grey pole with a blue stripe. Touchdown is on top of that grey pole.  Follow traffic, through the light and go right at the next one, when you reach the T-intersection.  The guardrails will be to your left and the concrete barrier to your right. Meaning, stay to the left as you go forward.

Stop just when you can rotate right and be staring straight down a bike path.

Touchdown is atop the thin red square metal call box in front of you. Go with the flow of traffic and take a right at the intersection. At the next light, take another right.  You'll take another right at the next intersection, once you do there will be an American flag on your left.  You're doing well.  At the next corner go into the intersection, on your left there well be a maroon awning that covers the entire corner.  Touchdown will be hiding above the number on the awning. Face yourself so that you are facing stoplights. There will be a baseball diamond on your right and a basketball court on your left. 

Go straight to the light and take a left. There will be orange and white road barricades on your right now. Go straight until you reach an intersection. There will be a deli on your right with a white sign and red letters. At the intersection it will give you the option to go left, straight or back. Click to go straight and then take the left.

YOu will see scaffolding on your right with orange mesh. Move forward to this scaffolding. There will be a cone on your right. right in front of the orange mesh. Touchdown in sitting on the cone.

 Turn so you are going in the same direction as the cars. You will see a building on the left with dark green awnings. Head down this street to the first intersection. Take a right here. Head down this one way street with traffic. You will see a dark stone building on your right. You will pass a construction dumpster on your right with a blue tarp on top. Keep going down the street. When you get to the intersection, head straight through it. Stop as soon as you get to the green building on the left. Around this building is a metal fence.You will see white signs all along the fence. Touchdown is sitting on the sign that is to the left of the opening of the fence to get into the building.  Turn and go toward the oncoming traffic.  You will pass an area of flags on the left and right. You will pass an area with 4 big flower pots. You will pass a store with red white and blue lights over head. Turn left at intersection. There will be trees lite up with red big ornaments on the right.  Touchdown will be sitting on top of  the highest red ornament.  Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the scaffolding to your right, Go left and then forward so you were traveling down the road with scaffolding on your right and the blue awning and the distance on the left. Continue to the intersection and take a right. You should see a red brick building on your right and a mirrored building on the left. Continue forward passing the three-way intersection.  you should see some construction to the left at the next intersection take a right turn here. Once you have turned right you should see a vibrant mirror to your right.Continue forward until you get to the next intersection and go straight. You should see some scaffolding on your right. Stop when you are on the crosswalk of the next intersection turn to your right and you should see a garbage bin click the base of the garbage bin to find touchdown. Turn so the construction site is directly ahead of you. Go down the street and stop at the light. Take a right. Go straight one block. take a right. You will see a green awning on your left. Go straight down this street. Stop when you just get to the colorful building on the right side of the street. Touchdown is sitting at the beginning the mural inside the red square that has some blue in it.  From your starting point, please turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street, and you should see an intersection just in front of you.  Ahead, and on the right, you should see some bright red letters above store windows.  

Just walk straight through this intersection and keep going to the end of the block.  Walk straight forward, over the two crosswalks in front of you, ignoring the narrow street to your left and right.  

You should now be standing next to a small red storefront, and a food cart with an orange umbrella.  Walk past these, and then take a right at the intersection just on the other side.  

You should now be walking down a one-way street with a bright red stripe above the windows on your right, and a green store with gray/silver letters and foreign characters on your left.  

walk down this road, and after you pass a large, light-orange banner on your right, walk straight through the intersection in front of you.  A silver food cart with a blue-and-yellow umbrella should be on your left as you proceed.  

Continue down this path, and stop just after you pass an alleyway on your left.  If you look to your right, you should be standing right next to two plants in wooden barrels.  Look to your left, and you should see a green doorway with  egg-shaped stones on either side.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the stone on your right--the one that is closer to the intersection and the gold flags. Go with traffic flow to the corner and turn left. 
Continue down this road. There will be a road that goes left, but do not turn here. Keep going straight. 
Go through the next intersection you come to. There will be a reddish/brown brick building on your right with a store with bright green lettering on it. At the end of the lettering is bamboo that is part of the store sign. Touchdown is on top of that bamboo. turn until you see a blue awning on a red brick building across the street on your left, go almost straight through this intersection, and take a right, you will have an orange machine on your left with a bucket for lifting workers, go to the intersection and take a right, you will pass a playground on the right, after the playground ends, there is a hydrant with 2 yellow poles, the bear is on the hydrant Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  You will see red awnings on the corner of the intersection ahead to your left.  Go straight through the intersection.
Head forward until you see a couple bikes on the right next to an empty little fenced off area with some greenery in it.  Touchdown is in this little fenced in area. Face in the direction that the traffic is going in, so you and the traffic are going in the same direction. At the first intersection, turn left, there should be a plain green boarded building on the left side. Continue straight through two intersections. On the right side, there will be a building with reflective glass and many doors, continue past that. On the right side, there is a line of concrete barriers. Nex to one of the barriers is a red fire hydrant. The touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  Go forward passing blue doors on your right and a green overhang, followed by some barriers on your right and then some more barriers on your left.
When you get to the intersection, turn left and you will see a long row of striped awnings on the right.
Go forward down this road and turn left at the next intersection, you should see a green retaining wall with orange and white barriers next to it on the left.  Just past the end of the barriers, you should see a purple sign on a pole on the right, which is where you will find Touchdown hiding. Enter the intersection closest to you. Continue straight so that a deli and restaurant is on your right and a red bank is on your left. Turn right at the next intersection. There is a cocktail bar on your left and a restaurant with a staircase to get to the front door on the right. Enter the next intersection and turn left so that you are with traffic, not against it. The median with trees should be on your left. Continue a couple paces until you are in front of a building entrance on the right with a black awning and a red, white, and blue flag above it. Touchdown is on the star on the front of the black awning.  Turn and follow the flow of traffic.  

Walk through the first intersection you encounter. At the next (2nd) one, go left.  Go left again when you come to the intersection after that (just enough that you're not standing in the intersection)

You should observe scaffolding to your left, and a building with a sign showing stylized white letters on a noticeable blue background on your right.

Looking to your right, you should see a metal pole, with a sign indicating one way, and another square sign showing a white bike on a black background.

The touchdown is sitting on the seat of that bike (on the sign!). Align yourself so that you're facing the intersection in front of you. There should be a black striped awning on your right. Head in to the intersection and make a right.

You'll pass a loading dock for mail trucks on your left, and you're almost there. Stop a couple steps after the scaffolding with the construction blockades in front of them. Stop between the white van and the white pickup truck, and you should see a parking sign with a blue bottom. Touchdown is in the middle of the sign. Turn so all the construction is on your right side, and there is normal sidewalk on your left side.  Go forward, and straight through the first intersection you come to.  
At the second intersection, turn left.  You'll now have construction scaffolding on your left and an official-looking stone building on your right.  
Go straight through the first intersection you come to, and then you'll pass a little park/plaza on your left.  Right after the park, you'll come to a traffic light, though cars can't turn here (just pedestrians can turn).  Stop when you're almost under this traffic light, and you're even with the last row of trees in the park on your left.  
If you face the park, there is a phone booth just to your left.  The bear is on the roof of the phone booth, in the center. Turn so the four way intersection is behind you. At the fork go left. Head straight down the street. At the first intersection you come to take a left. There will be a green delivery truck on your right side. Go left at the fork. Go straight down this road to the next lighted intersection. Take a left. On your left you will see a red square object sticking up on the sidewalk. Touchdown is sitting on top of this object.  Turn so the chain link fence with the green cloth on it is on your right side.  You'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street.  Go forward until you've gone under the bridge and you reach an intersection.  Turn left.  
You'll now have a green construction wall along your left side, and pictures of food on your right side.  There are bridges going over this block.  Move ahead until you've passed under the first bridge.  When you come out the other side of that bridge, look around to your right (a little behind you), and you'll see a set of stairs that lead up to the bridge. Stop when you're just past these stairs and you have a clear view of them. The bear is sitting in the center of the bottom step. Orient yourself so that the large glass building is to your right. Go forward, passing the pillars on your left and going under the tunnel. Turn right when possible. Stop once you can see a stop sign ahead and to the right. The touchdown is on the center of the sign.   Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. There should now be a red business with several flags to your right.

2. Move forward until you reach an intersection, and take a right. After reorienting yourself, there should be some scaffolding with a green overhang to your left and a couple of flags to your right.

3. At the next intersection, take another right. After reorienting yourself, there should once again be some scaffolding with a green overhang to your left and some flags to your right.

4. Move down this road for a while. Keep an eye on the right for two gray mailboxes covered in graffiti with two bikes (one yellow and one blue) tied to a signpost. When all of that is directly to your right, stop. Touchdown is sitting on the seat of the yellow bike.

Good luck! :) Orient yourself so the playground is on your right and proceed. Turn right at the traffic light. Go straight at the next light but then stop before the second one. To your left should be a mural beyond basketball courts. Touchdown is in the firetruck in the mural. Turn so the chain link fence is on your right and all the small cement pillars are on your left.  Go forward, ignoring the opportunity to veer to the left.  Go up the slight hill and onto the bridge.  Watch the low concrete wall on your left side.  As you get up onto the bridge it will end (another wall starts shortly after it, but there's a gap).  Stop when you've just barely passed the end of this cement wall (you're in the beginning of the gap).  The bear is on top of the end of the cement wall before the gap. Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Head to the nearest intersection.  Turn left.  Then take the next left.  You will go down this road for a while, then turn left.  Take a few steps after your turn.    Look left.  There are two cones and 1 orange barrel.  The bear is on top of the middle cone. Start by positioning yourself in such a way that you have construction work behind you and then go forward. When you reach an intersection turn right and go forward. Reach another intersection and again turn right. Keep walking straight, make sure to pass a cake shop on our right and continue forward. Walk till you see some construction work to your right, stop shortly after the garage. Touchdown is sitting on top of the green hydrant to your left.  With the large green construction wall on your right and the red newspaper dispenser on your left, turn right at this intersection.  You should have scaffolding on your left and the green construction wall on your right. Turn right onto the next street you come to.  The building on your right will have arched windows. Go to the next intersection and turn right.  There will be a business on your right with large red letters.  Go straight through the next two stoplights.  At the next intersection, there will be a vendor with blue and yellow umbrellas.  Go into the intersection.  Touchdown will be on top of the trashcan ahead on your right, on the corner that has the grey building. While standing in the middle of the intersection, face the two beige building and move forward toward the blue sign near the car lot. Pass the car lot and make a left at the intersection. There should now be scaffolding on your right and a brown/black storefront on your left. Continue forward passing the alley and stopping before you reach the first traffic light. There will now be scaffolding to your right and two green, flat awnings to your left. Touchdown will be on the center of the pink/blue logo that is on the green awning closest to the crosswalk. Orient yourself so the nearest intersection is at your back, you're following the flow of traffic, and there is a red painted traffic lane on your right.  Go to the next intersection and turn left.  Go all the way down this block.  At the first intersection go straight, and then keep moving forward until you are at a gated driveway with lots of brick and a guard booth.  You'll have no choice but to turn at this point.  Turn left but don't move.  On your right next to the curb Is an ornate bright red pole with a very pointy top.  Touchdown is stuck on that pointy top. Stand so that you are walking with the flow of traffic. Move forward to the intersection and turn left. Continue straight until you reach the next intersection (at a dead end). Straight ahead of you on the left is a red and white fire hydrant. Touchdown is on the fire hydrant. Orient yourself so there are two green courtyards of apartment buildings on either side of the street you're looking at.  Walk down this street.  Continue straight through the first intersection, keeping the grocery store on your right.  As you walk down the street, look for a color mural painted on a wall on your right.  Past this on your right is a building that is tan and bright blue.  Past this building on your left before the intersection, you will see 3 black square planters with small shrubs growing out of them.  Touchdown is on top of the shrub in the middle planter. Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Head forward and take your first left.  Pass the handball courts on the left, and the white building.  As you pass the building you will enter a small intersection, continue straight then stop.  On the left is a shopping cart.  The bear is in it.   Turn yourself so you are facing the direction of the cars parked on the street. 
When you come to the first intersection om your left  with be a store with a green awning. Turn left and go down that street. At the first interestection you come to on this street you again turn left and walk about 10 feet. On your left there is a building. The first floor of the building is painted gray. The top three floors are painted white. The second window opening  has a window air conditioner in it. Touchdown is sitting on top of that air conditioner.
 Turn so the school with the bright green are over the entrance is to your right, and you're facing the same direction the cars are traveling on this street.  Go straight to the next intersection (past the giant inflatable rat on the left), and turn left.  Go one short block to the next intersection, and turn left.  The second building on your right has a sort of blue brick/tile pattern on the wall.  When you're at the far end of that blue tile wall, look at the door in that blue wall.  It's a silver door with a yellow diamond-shaped sign on it.  The bear is on the yellow diamond. Turn to walk with traffic. The park will be to your left. Walk down to the end of the block. At the intersection, turn right. Walk down the street to the next intersection. Turn right. You'll see a hot dog stand with two blue and yellow umbrellas to your right as you walk down the street. Walk down past some orange dividers on your right. Immediately after there will be some construction scaffolding. Keep going- at the end of the scaffolding there will be an orange traffic cone on the sidewalk. Touchdown is at the base fo the cone. If you are in the correct position there's a building to your right with a red awning. Across the street to your right is a building with a orange and purple awning. To your left is a building with a orange stripe on a black awning. When you are positioned correctly please step into the intersection and make a left. If you made the left then you should see green scaffolding on your right and a white brick building on the left. Please continue straight for short distance. Once you pass the white building you will see a red brick building with red doors. Touchdown will be sitting to the right of the red doors on the sidewalk. Follow traffic to the light and go right, and right again at the next light, and right once more at the final light. There'll be a building with a red awning on the corner. Go a step past it, but not past the sign on the building with the clock on the right and bottom.  Instead, find touchdown dead center on that clock. Turn so that you see a bridge in front of you . Tennis courts are to the right. Go towards the bridge. You will stop before you get to the bridge. Stop and look to the right. When you are in front of the building that is to the right of the building that has a blue stripe on it and is under construction. The blue building is sitting on the street below and the middle blue stripe has a light pole in front of it. Touchdown is sitting on the light.  Turn yourself so you are facing traffic.  You will see a bike parking area on your right as you move down the street.  Continue down this street until the next intersection.  Turn left at the intersection.  Construction scaffolding will be on your left and a park on your right.  Continue down this street until the next intersection and turn left.  You will see a fenced dining area on your left.  You will also pass some construction scaffolding on your left.  Once you are past the scaffolding, Touchdown will be sitting on the top of the stairs of the entrance to the first building on your left past the scaffolding. Turn so the blue benches are on your right and you are facing the same way the cars are parked.  Travel to the end of this street and turn right.  Follow the road as it curves to the right and follow the concrete barrier until you join with the main road.  Watching on the right, stop when you are next to the first brown brick building with a chain link fence in front of it.  There is a single grey door with a red sign on it.  Touchdown is sitting on the box above the grey door.  There is a white cable leading right to him. Hello. Please orient yourself with the flow of traffic. You will see green subway stairwells to your right side with green poles and green and white circles on top.

Walk forward to the four-way intersection ahead. Turn right. 
You will see scaffolding with green awning to your right side now.

Continue straight, following the path as it makes you veer to the left and then straight again.

Go straight through the three-way turn that you encounter.

At the next three-way turn, you will see a silver phone booth with a red pole to your right side. Turn right.

Watch the left side as you move forward. When you are standing equal with the second set of glass doors that have two orange cones inside near them, please stop. 

Look to your right side now. Near the corner of the red brick building is a single orange and white barrel. 

Touchdown will be on top of the barrel. Good luck! Begin moving in the same direction as the cars. When you get to the first intersection (Spring St), make a left turn. Go straight through the first intersection. As you continue, you will see orange barricades on the left side walk and then two mailboxes. Touchdown the bear is sitting on top of the nearest mailbox (the one closest to the orange barricades) Orient yourself so that you are facing an intersection directly in front of you.  Enter the intersection; head right. Turn right.  There will be a green and black storefront of your right.  Go to the next intersection and turn right again.  There will be a flower market on your left after you turn.  Go all the way down this rather long street and turn right one last time.  Exit the intersection but stop shortly after exiting it.  Turn 90 degrees to your right.  You should be facing a brown block building that is sandwiched between ad white and a red brick building.  On the second floor of the red brick building are three windows.  The middle window has an air conditioner hanging out of it.  This air conditioner is directly above a yellow sign.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this air conditioner. orient yourself so that the red brick building is on your left and the light/white building is on your right.  head straight, as you go there will be a green fence on your right. keep going until you reach the first intersection, then take the first right at that intersection. once you have turned right, you will see another green fence on your right. Go straight, following the green fence that gives way to an iron rod fence. keep going until you reach the next intersection and take a right.  keep going straight, you will see a blue sign ahead on the right. go past the blue sign to the next intersection. turn right at the intersection and go straight past the mona lisa with the pizza. keep going straight until you are in front of the building with the green fire escape. Touchdown is in front of the ATM on the left. Turn with the flow of traffic and continue down the road you are standing on.  The trees should be on your left as you travel.  Go through 3 intersections.  Pass the first white moving truck and stop.  Bear is in the front tire of this truck (1st one with motorcycle parked in front of it.  (Click middle of tire) Go with traffic down the one way. Turn left at the intersection. Go straight at next intersection. Enter the next intersection and turn left and stop at the crosswalk of this intersection. Look right there is a green trash can on the corner. Touchdown is sitting at the opening of this trash can. Orient yourself with the four lane of traffic road and proceed. Turn right at the first light. Turn right at the next light as well. Stop before the intersection of the next light, just before an orange, yellow, and blue box on the left sidewalk. Touchdown is on top of the yellow box. Turn to move in the same direction as traffic.  Go straight through the little 3 way intersection, and move to the next one. Take a right. It should be the first right you can take. At the next intersection, go straight. Just before the next intersection, you will see some scaffolding on your right. Under the scaffolding, you will see a single orange cone. Touchdown is on top of it.  Turn so your back is to the intersection you are at. You should see a blue awning on the left side. Go straight one block. Make a right turn. There is a colorful fence on your left. At the first intersection you come to keep going straight. At the next intersection make a right turn. Once you have turned you'll see artfully painted walls on the right side. You will be going about halfway down this block. There are fenced areas in the building to your right. Go past those. Go past that blue door on the right and go just past the fire hydrant also on the right then stop. You should be almost next to a tree on the right side. Touchdown is on the ground at the base of the tree.  Orient yourself so you are going against the flow of traffic with the mural behind the fence off in the distance on the left in front of you. Continue forward to the next intersection and go straight. You should see a blue bike to the left in front of you and a red brick building on your right. Continue forward going past the three-way intersection. After the three-way intersection on the left down the road a bit you should see a pile of black trash bags. Go past the trash bags and look for a bus stop on the left. When you are in line with the bus stop stop and look slightly left.  you should see an orange and white construction barrel a little bit ahead of you on the left. Click the base of the orange and white construction barrel to find touchdown. Turn so the parking lot is on your right. Go straight at the first light. At the next light take a right. There will be construction on your right. At the next intersection again go right. More construction on your right. At the next intersection go straight but stop when you are almost all the way through. Touchdown is in the middle of the red sign with white letters and an orange stripe on the bottom. Its on the right.  Turn to face the direction of travel on this one way road, the arched building will be behind you.  Follow the road watching the tallest red brick building on the right hand side.  When you are beside that building far enough that you can see the space between that one and the shorter red brick building with red trim.   Look to the left a little and you will see a square structure with a gold pointed roof on top of a building.  There is purple paint on the square.  Touchdown is on the top of the dark golden roof where it makes a point. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, and ignore the first intersection. At the second intersection, make a right. You should see a coffee shop on your right, a few steps down. Touchdown is on the logo of the coffee shop. Go with traffic flow through the 3-way intersection that comes up right away, past the scaffolding into the next intersection. Don't turn, but notice on your right just ahead of you a bell shaped item on the right. It's black with a white top. Touchdown is sitting on top of that. Find a large red flag hanging from a building.  Orient yourself so you are moving towards the red flag.  It should be on your left.  Move forward and continue on until you reach the second intersection.  At this intersection, you should see a red brick building with some wood panels across the street on the left and scaffolding with green painted wood on the top on the right.  Turn right.  Continue until you reach the next intersection.  On the right there should be a food stand with two red umbrellas.  Turn right here.  Continue for a short ways just past a building that has a green covering over the sidewalk.  The next building should be made of tan bricks and has a row of bushes in front of it.  The first window you see on this building has a drawing of a foot and ankle on a white background.  Touchdown is located on the foot. Turn and follow traffic, with the scaffolding on your right, and turn left at the end of the block. Turn left again at the end of that block. 

There will be scaffolding on your right again, with white Jersey barriers with vertical orange stripes.  Just before clearing the scaffolding, turn to your left, so that you're looking straight at a set of grey doors between large bricks, where red posted signs are visible.  Look up to the left, almost to the light on the stone pillar (but to the right of it), and see a weird metal circular object.  Touchdown is, of course, adhered to this. Orient yourself so that the cobblestone road with the purple banner hanging from a building is in front of you. Walk straight down this road. 

As you reach the first intersection, you should see a building with a green awning being worked on to your left. Turn right at this intersection.

Walk until you reach another intersection. You should see a white building with long columns across the street. Turn right at this intersection.

Walk straight, and you will reach another intersection with stop signs on both sides. Turn right at this intersection. 

Walk until right before you get to the next intersection. On your right, you should see a red and white sign attached to a long dark pole. Touchdown is sitting on top of the sign. 

 Follow the one way road with the large truck on your left. Turn left at the next intersection. Continue forward and turn left at the next intersection. Go straight until you reach the end of the green scaffolding on your right. The touchdown is the base of the last construction barrel on your left.   Follow traffic to the light. Go left. Go left at the next light. Go almost to the end of the block. Stop at the large white sign band with black letters and numbers on the right. Rotate right. Touchdown is atop the thin dark grey metal parking meter with the blue band around the top. Turn yourself so you are facing traffic and green awnings are on your left. and start down the street.  Turn right at intersection.  You will see a blue awning on your left as you start down the street.  Turn right at intersection.  You will see some trees and shrubs on your left as you start down the street.  You will pass a construction area on your left.  As you continue down the street you will pass a section that has construction scaffolding on both the left and right side of the street.  You will pass two green banners on your right.  As you approach the intersection you will see some red awnings on your right.  Just past the awnings you will see a red metal post on the sidewalk to your right.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the red post. GO LEFT immediately at the light, so you have the scaffolding on your right and the park on your left. GO LEFT at the light. GO just past the crosswalk at the SECOND light. ROTATE LEFT.  You should see an opening in the fence for the park, with steel metal fence on either side, and very close to you, a black square sign with a white arrow.

FIND Touchdown at the end of the white arrow on the sign. Face in the intersection so the bank with the blue and orange logo is on the right and there is green scaffolding up ahead on the right. Continue straight and then turn right at the next intersections so that the park is on your left. Pass the construction zone and scaffolding on the right. On the left up ahead is an orange cone before a brown dumpster. Touchdown is on top of the orange cone. Turn and follow the flow of traffic.  Go through this first intersection, through the next, and then turn right.  Enter the next intersection, and go right, but then stop.    Look behind you.  There is a trash can with what looks like brooms sticking out.  The bear is on the white sticker on the can.  Start by turning so that you are facing in the proper direction of traffic on this one way street.
proceed straight ahead, there are no turns on this route.
You will come upon a left curve in the road and continue along.
At the next curve, where the street curves slightly to to the right , you are getting close.
Shortly before the stop sign at the next intersection look to your left and see the parking area, at left side the entrance to the parking area there is a short yellow metal post.
Touchdown is sitting atop this post.
 Align yourself with the flow of traffic in your lane. Take the right on to the ramp a few steps ahead. Keep right at the next turn. Head down to before the intersection, you should see a lot of traffic lane direction on the road. On the right side there should be a hydrant on the side of the street you're on between two red poles. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant. position yourself so the scaffolding is on your right and the park is on your left. Go with the traffic, pass the first 3 way intersection, stop at the first intersection with lights. Now the park is still on your left and the brick building with black window frame is on your right. Turn left here. You will see orange/white traffic cone on the right side of the road. Go straight this way, stop at the third 3-way intersection. Do not enter the intersection. Now the park is on your left, a dark red building will be in front of you to the right . look to your left and you see the traffic light pole, there is a green sign with white drawing of a bike on it. The touchdown is at where the bike is on the sign  Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic, Continue straight to the intersection and take a right, Continue straight to the next intersection and take another right, You should see a Subway entrance on the right side of the road, continue straight, Look for an American flag hanging from a building on the right side of the road, Go past the flag until you reach the building with the red awning on the right, Turn to your right and you will see the red Awning in front of you and a small black awning to the right of that, click the lettering on the small black awning to find touchdown.
 Orient yourself with traffic and proceed. Turn left at the first intersection. Pass by an open gate with central statue on the right. Stop after passing a parking garage on your right. On your left should be a mall with revolving door. Touchdown is on the top center point of the door. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and the black fencing to your right.  Go past the 3-way intersection that leads left and turn right at the next intersection.  This will keep the black fenced in area on your right and you will have some scaffolding to the left.
Go straight through the next intersection and keep going.  You will soon find the road splitting.  Stay left and stop when in the middle of the intersection just after the split.  You will find Touchdown hiding on the yellow diamond shaped sign in this intersection to your right.
 With the angled entrances to your right, go straight. Go past them. As you go straight you should see a pillar with a blue stripe on the left. Touchdown is sitting on this pillar.  Position yourself where the American Flag is on your right. Follow the road once your in position until you arrive at the traffic light up ahead and make a right turn. Once you make a right turn pass all the buildings with staircases and eventually you should notice a traffic light up ahead. Pass the traffic light until you arrive at another traffic light which is near a building with a red window frame. Make a right at this area. Follow the road until you pass a building with a green awning on your right and is in front of a gated fence. Above the building with the gate is a brick symbol of a cross. The touchdown is on top of the air conditioner to the left of the cross. Face into the intersection so the bank with the fruit is ahead on your right. Proceed straight through the intersection. Past the bank, on the left sidewalk is two green pop-up tents next to a white pop-up tent. Touchdown is on the very top of the first green pop-up tent.  Orient yourself so that the dumpster with the blue tarp is on your right. Go to the first intersection and turn right. Go straight and then turn right at the next intersection. Stop when you see a gated construction area on your right. The touchdown is on bottom of the green chair on the sidewalk on the right. GO WITH traffic and GO LEFT at the light. GO LEFT again at the next light.

You'll pass double doors at the top of steps in grey framing that are bright red on your right, then white k-walls on your left. STOP just pass the k-walls.  ROTATE RIGHT.  You should be facing a tall black fence with an urban jungle of foliage serving as a garden behind it. 

FIND Touchdown CENTERED on a square black sign with white letters and a leaf inside a circle on the fence. Follow the flow of traffic and go to the intersection.  Continue through first intersection, to the second.    Turn left.  There will be a pretzel stand on your right.  Continue to intersection.  Stop in the intersection.  There is an orange cone with police tape on top.  Bear is sitting on top. Turn yourself so that the red building with blue and white posters is in front of you. Walk toward that building. Make a slight turn so that you are on the road where the red building with the posters is to the right of you, and you see white stars on the lampposts. Walk straight down this road. 

You will come to an intersection with a road that leads to the right. There will be trees to your left, and a black building to your right. Continue straight through this intersection.

Keep going until you come to the 4 way intersection. A building with a green awning should be across the street to your right. Turn right at this intersection. 

Walk straight a few paces until you see the construction in front of you, marked with the white and orange dividers. To your left should be an orange port-a-potty. Touchdown is sitting at the bottom of the door to this port-a-potty. 

 Face against traffic and move toward the closest intersection. Turn right so the hotel entrance is on your left and an art installation made of colorful arrows is on your right. Continue straight through two intersections and turn right at the third. You'll be moving against traffic and there will be a pizza place on your left and a bagel place on your right. Move down the street until you see an old church on your right. Touchdown is on the light above the first entrance to the church with the closed wood doors.  If you are in the correct position there is a large white wall to your right. To your left is a beige building with a brick top and a red door.
Please continue straight until you reach the first intersection.
Now turn left. If you turn on the correct street you will see a building with a black storefront and yellow brick on top to your left. Please head straight and look to your right for a red building with a black door. Just after that and before the blue building with the black door you will see a parking meter touchdown is sitting on top of the parking meter. Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street.  Go forward to the first intersection you come to, and turn left.  Go to the other end of this very short block, and go into the next intersection.  Stop in the middle of the intersection.  One of the corners at this intersection has a subway entrance (green railing around a stairway leading underground).  There are two short lampposts on the subway entrance that look like balls - bottom half is yellow and top half is green.  The bear is sitting on top of the lamppost ball that is farther from you. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Go forward and you should see scaffolding ahead on the right.
Turn left at the next intersection and there will be reddish painted lane to your right.
Stop in the next intersection that has a green painted lane ahead on the left, you should see a median dividing that lane and the main road.  Touchdown is at the base of this lonely tree in the media. From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  The red box full of dirt should be on your left.

Walk forward, into the intersection, and take a right.  You should now be walking in the same direction as the cars on the street, and passing between two red buildings.  Stop in the middle of the next intersection you come to.  

Take a right at this intersection and walk down a narrow road.  You should pass a green awning with white lettering on you right.  Just walk straight down this street until you come to another intersection.  

Take a right at this intersection, and keep moving.  You should pass a light-red wall on your right, and then some columns and a gray canopy over a doorway.  

Walk forward and stop in the middle of the next intersection you come to.  

Up ahead, on your left, is a median with some trees and bushes behind a short black fence.  Closest to the intersection is a green cone-shaped tree, similar to a Christmas tree.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the tip of this tree. Position yourself in which there should be a building with an advertisement on your right and a red banner on your left. Follow the road till you arrive at the traffic light. Pass the traffic light and continue forward eventually passing an red, white, and blue flag on your right. You should be close to the traffic light once you pass the flag. Make a left turn at the traffic light. Once you make a left turn, continue forward and eventually you will pass the white and pink carriage on your right. Keep on going till you arrive at a purple carriage but don't go pass it. You should be between a purple and red carriage on your right. The touch down is sitting in the seat in the middle on the purple carriage. Turn so the orange and white construction barrier is on your left.  Move ahead to the intersection and turn right.  You'll now have a large apartment building with a grassy lawn on your left, and little stores on your right.  Go one short block to the next intersection, and make another right.  On this block, the building to your right has a really bright red sign over the door.   Go forward, and straight through one intersection.  Now you'll be on a narrowed street with construction fencing on both sides of you.  Go ahead to the next intersection, and turn right.  You'll be on a wide street with some open space and a parking lot to your right.  Go forward, and you'll come to an intersection where you can only make a right or continue forward.  Stop when you're in the far crosswalk and have to make a choice about turning.  Look to the right, and  you'll see a small square of construction fencing that is orange (blocking off a small square of sidewalk).  The bear is on top, in the center, of the side of fencing that's facing you.  orient yourself so that you are going with the flow of traffic. Go straight and take a left at the first intersection just ahead. You will now be between a reddish brick building and a lighter color building. Go straight, until you reach the next intersection and take another left. There should be a red building with dark squares on your left. Head straight until you reach another intersection, and take a left. After taking a left, go straight past the row of bikes parked on your right. keep heading straight until you reach another intersection. when you reach the intersection, take a left and stop. Touchdown will be in front of the garbage can next to the phone booths. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.

Go through the intersection and you should see a very small break with stores on the right and another intersection ahead.  Step into this second intersection and stop.

You should see a yellow sign with two people walking on it, and a sign with an arrow below it.  Touchdown is on this arrow. Orient yourself to follow the flow of traffic and turn left at the first intersection. Go through the first intersection and then turn left at the second.You should see a line of blue bikes on your right. Go forward and stop at the end of the line. The touch down is on the white emblem on the blue flag on the right (the flag after the American flag, not before).  Follow the flow of traffic, with the black awning on your right and make a right at the first intersection. Follow the red, bus lane and make a right at the first intersection. There should now be a line of blue bikes on your left. Pass them and stop when you reach the intersection. Turn to your left and Touchdown will be on top of the red hydrant. Position yourself so the orange construction equipment is on your left side.
Travel forward until you hit the next intersection and take left.
You'll pass a pink thing on your right side along the way.
After you make that left, make another left at the next street.
A purple awning will be on your right side immediately after you turn.
Go forward a bit until you see an American flag hanging on the left side.
The touchdown is the tip of the pole it's hanging from.
 Turn so the blue/grey building and the black rod iron fence are on your left and the red/brown building is on your right.  Follow the flow of traffic, wacthing on the left for a black awning over the opening in the building for a road.  Touchdown is sitting in the middle of that black awning, right over the white symbol in the middle. Hello. Please orient yourself with the intersection behind you. To your left, there will be orange and white construction barriers along with a green wall. To your right, there is scaffolding with green awning along with a yellow stripe cement barrier.

Walk straight on this path. You will go straight through an intersection with no options to turn. To your left, there will be orange mesh fences. To your right, there will be scaffolding with green awning.

You will encounter a three-way turn, ignore it and continue straight. Shortly after, you will enter a four-way intersection. Slow down as you cross straight through it.

Keep your eyes on the right side. There will be a red bus lane. Move forward slowly as you pass a black fire hydrant. You will pass some bicycles leaning on a green pole. Walk slightly forward beyond the bicycles. You will be standing equal with a silver bus stop in between two trees. It has a sign of a building with white and green letters on it. 

Now look ahead on your right. There is a single orange cone with white stripes next to another dark pole with a bicycle leaning against it. Touchdown will be at the base of this orange cone. Good luck! Stand so you are facing the intersection that you are right next to it. Move into the intersection and pass straight through it.  Continue, past the red newspaper stand on the left. Move ahead past the chain link fences on both sides, then straight through the 3-way intersection. Then pass brick buildings, the playground on the left, and green fencing on the left. Stop just before the intersection. On your left is a skinny tree with a short fence barrier around it. Touchdown is at the base of the tree. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  You will have the barriers to your right.  Go through the intersection ahead, pass the 3-way leading to the right and hang a right at the next intersection.  You should see scaffolding ahead on the right with orange and white barriers around.  There's a food cart to the left.
Go forward, passing all the construction and turn right at the next intersection.
You should see more scaffolding ahead on the right after the black awning jutting from the building on the right.
Go straight through the intersection ahead and stop when you're in front of an entryway on the right that looks like a honeycomb.  Touchdown is hiding on the round blue circular sign at the top of a pole right in front of this entrance.
 First you need to be headed in the right direction. Go to the middle of the intersection and Turn around until the building with a mural that has a bumble bee is behind you and on your right. once the building with the mural painted on it is behind you and on your right hand side go down that street. At the very first stoplight you want to turn left to go down that street. You will know you are on the right street when you see a 5 story red brick building that has a mural painted on the first floor on your left as you turn the corner. Continue down that street almost to the end on your right hand side you will see a peach and beige building that has a long wheel chair ramp. Right after the end of the ramp you will see a black rod iron fence that  surrounds a garden park. Touchdown is sitting on the bottom left corner of the gate to enter the garden park.  Going with the flow of traffic on the three lane road, go to the second stoplight.  You'll see a business on your right that has red trim with gold and glass windows.  You're going to take a right turn here.  Now, go straight until you get to the second stoplight and turn right. The first business on the right, has red awnings.  Touchdown is sitting at the center base of the wooden doors to this business. Continue forward into intersection.  Turn right.  Continue down this path, until you can turn right.  Continue until you find yourself in the middle of 2 crosswalks, near the park.  Look away from the park, down the road.  There is a trash can on the right, with something red in it.  The bear is on the red spot.   Orient yourself so the nearest intersection is at your back and the construction area with scaffolding is on your left.  Walk to the end of this block (going straight through the three way intersection) and turn right at the four way intersection.  Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right again.  As you walk down this road, right before you reach a multiway intersection with medians and stuff is a tiny fenced in green area with small trees on your right.  It's surrounded by a grey fence that has circles on top of the spokes and little gold things every so often.  When you're at the end of that green area, right before entering the confusing intersection, stop.  Look to your right and back a little bit, basically over your shoulder.  You should see a white brick building with a black door that has an ornate archway over it.  Above the door and arch is a round stone carved emblem on the building.  Touchdown is in the middle of that emblem.   turn to move with traffic to the 1st intersection and take a right, a store on the right will be trimmed in red and green. Just before the next intersection is a red storefront with a golden bird on the logo, the bear is on the bird. Face the same direction of the cars, with the green and red park on your right. Pass both parks on either side of you and stop when you reach the yellow diamond sign. Touchdown is on the yellow square sign under it. Face in the direction the parked cars are pointing.  Move down this winding road, going over the speed bump.  When you reach an intersection, turn left.  You will pass a store with pictures of large green leaves in the windows on your right.  At the first intersection, turn left.  Stop a short distance ahead when you are next to the graffiti covered truck.  Touchdown is in the middle of that truck's front tire. Move with the flow of traffic to the first intersection, just after the end of a brick building with 2 huge red banners on your right, and turn right. Pass the off white building with green windows on your left. At the next intersection, turn right again. Pass the chain link fences on your right, then the sports court on your right. Stop in the center of the intersection. On your right is a small white and red sign on a green pole. Touchdown is on the sign. Go with the flow of the traffic. You should have a yellow cab in front of you. Food restaraunts on the right in white and yellow. Go to the intersection and go left. There should still be a yellow cab in front of you and you should see a red car on your right. Go all the way to the intersection and take a left. Go until you see a market store on the right and a chips truck on the left and slightly behind you. Look at the window at the market. There is a Facebook logo. That is your touchdown.  Turn yourself so you are facing a streetlight and a store with an alligator logo in on your left. Go straight, passing 2 mailboxes covered in stickers on your left. Keep going straight until you reach an intersection with a light. Turn left. Turn yourself until you are looking down the street. Go straight until you come to another intersection with a light. At this light, turn left. You will start going down a street that has a green stripe on the right side of the road. Go straight until you come to a light and turn left. Start going straight down this street and you will see some large trees leaning over the street on the left. Go past all the trees and then look at the store front on the left that has some mannequins in the window. Right past the mannequins is a folding sign standing on the sidewalk. Touchdown is on this sign.  Follow the traffic direction to the intersection. There will be a red pole on the left side of the road. Turn right here at this intersection. Now you should see scaffolding on the right side of the road. Go straight. Stop at the next intersection you see. There should be a store with red awning to your left and scaffolding to your right. Now turn right again. Now you are on a street with construction on the left half of the street and scaffolding on the right side. go straight. When you pass the green mailbox on right side of the road, you will reach some stores with black awnings to your right. There is an orange shopping cart in front of a store. Go till you can see the back of the shopping cart. The touchdown is sitting on top of the shopping cart.  Position yourself so the row of blue bicycles is on your right side.
Travel down the street and make a right at the first intersection.
Cross over the first and second streets you encounter on this road.
Cross the next intersection.
Right after crossing this street you will see a red newspaper box on the left side of the road. The touchdown is on the blue square.
 Position yourself so you can see the window cleaner crane in the distance. Turn left at the first intersection. Take another left at the next intersection, and yet another left at the very next intersection. Move up to another intersection and take a left again. You'll see the crane again. Coming up on your right is some gray bins, one of them containing some yellow plastic. Touchdown is behind a white road cone next to these bins. Turn so the building with wide steps is to your left. Go to that corner just ahead and turn left. When you turn the building on the right has black awning which have green squares on them with white lettering. Go down this long block to the next intersection, turn left and stop. When you turn there is scaffolding to your right and a tan building with an arched doorway to your left. On the construction before the scaffolding is a white sign with 4 different colored circles. Touchdown is centered in the blue circle.  Follow the flow of traffic and make a left at the second traffic light, a flag will be on your left and a beige building on your right.Go down that street and stop before you reach the white lines on the street before the traffic light. Touchdown will be on the white sign which is on the pole to your right. Orient yourself so you are facing the same direction the cars are travelling.  Walk past the park/playground on your left to the end of the block.  At the intersection turn left and walk down this street.  Stop just before you enter the intersection.  Look to your left, you should see a bright blue picket fence in front of a building, beneath a black and white awning.  Touchdown is in the middle of the fence. Begin moving with the flow of traffic, so a business with a red awning and white lettering is on your right. Turn left at the first intersection. After you turn, you'll see a business on your left with a sign made of red lettering and windows that are outlined in lights. 

At the next intersection, turn left again. Now, you will see a long dumpster with a blue tarp over it just up ahead on your right. Walk past that dumpster, and you'll see a second one right after it. When you're in line with the end of the second dumpster look to the left to see a gray store with it's door open. Above the door and slightly left are four balloons. Touchdown is perched on the purple balloon.  Go with the flow of traffic and make an immediate right turn.Go down this one way street and you will see a bunch of blue bikes on your left.Just past the bikes at the next traffic light you will turn right.At the  next traffic light turn right again.About half way down this street you will see a bunch of bikes on your right Touchdown is sitting on the white bike with red wheeles Position yourself so the building with graffiti is on your right and the building with the blue awning is on your left. About halfway between your starting point and the next intersection, you'll see a business on the right with a sign above the window that is half navy blue and half green. It has white writing on both sides. Look for the teacup on the green sign and Touchdown will be sitting right on it.  You begin in the intersection. Turn yourself around so the bright green corner of the glassed building is up ahead on your left and the tan building with the orange arrows on its corner is up ahead on your right. Go straight now so you pass those buildings. Go to the next corner and turn right.

Again, go to the next corner and turn right. 

Go past the cones on the right, past the scaffolding on the left. At the end of the scaffolding on the left, turn to your right and there will be a small green dumpster on wheels on the sidewalk. Touchdown is sitting on top of the dumpster in the center close to the front edge. From your starting point, please turn around so that you are facing a red, black, and white mural on a wall up ahead.  Step towards that mural, until you are in the middle of the intersection.  

Now, turn to your right.  You should be facing oncoming traffic, and there should be a gray lamppost with black and white signs just in front of you on your right, and a small shop with brown awnings on your left.  Walk forward, between the pole and the shop, until you come to another intersection.  

Take a right at this intersection, and walk down the narrow street that has a red brick building on its right and some leafy trees and red awnings on its left.  

Walk down this street, and you will pass a small park behind a fence on your left.  It has a bird painted in black on the wall.  You should see a yellow school bus parked on the right just ahead of you.  Walk forward until you are standing right next to the front wheels of this bus, and look to your right.  

On the red-and-black brick building, there is a door with lots of black squares around glass panels.  Touchdown is sitting right on top of the silver door handle.   Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and the dumpster full of cement and dirt is on your right.
Turn left at the next intersection and you should have a food cart on your right and some red banners on the building above it.
Turn left again at the next intersection, but don't leave the intersection.  On your right is a fire hydrant between two silver posts.  Touchdown is on top of the hydrant.
 Position yourself to go with traffic flow and move down the road. Go past the construction scaffolding on the right and turn right at the corner.
You will now have a dark wall on your right as you go down this road. At the next intersection turn right. As you turn, there is construction scaffolding on your right and a green medium to your left. Go down this road and through the next intersection, just past where construction ends. As you get through the intersection, there is a sign on the right side of the road that is a red rectangle sign on top with a white rectangle sign directly under it, as if it were one sign. 
Touchdown is on top of this sign. Go down the road with the median to your left and stores to your right.
Go through the first and second intersections, but turn left at the third. 

When you turn, you are going with traffic flow. Go down this road, past the first 2 trees to your right, then you will see 2 trees to your left. There will be a blue awning across the street from the third tree on the left that you come to. Above the blue awning in the left window is an air conditioning unit sticking out beyond the window. Touchdown is on top of that air conditioner. Face towards the stone arch in the distance and follow traffic to the intersection.

Go left (yes, left), and walk forward, with the construction barricades to your left and the park to your right, until you reach an intersection.

Go left. You'll see a long green overhang to your right, and trees on either side of the sidewalk further on.

Walk until you can see a white door just before a white picket fence, forward and to your left. You don't want it directly to your left; if it is, you've gone too far.  From your vantage where it's diagonal to you, you'll find the touchdown sitting on the sidewalk dead center up against the white door. Turn around to face the flow of traffic. Go forward, and make the first left that you can. Continue forward past the black and white banner signs on your left, until you get to the intersection with the stoplight. Continue straight through. When you get to the next intersection, make a left. Go a little forward until you see a dark blue awning with white numerals on your right. Touchdown is on the white lettering above the door. Follow traffic past the k-walls on your right, and go to the end of the block. Take a right there, another right at the light, and another right at the light after that.

Ahead on the left you will see a grey brick building with light blue awning, and you'll be heading into oncoming traffic. Proceed until you're able to turn left and look at the double glass door entrance of the grey brick building.  Above its door is huge dark grey dimensional letters, followed by a blue dimensional angular symbol. Touchdown is dead center in the empty middle of the symbol.
 Orient yourself so the parking lot surrounded by a chain-link fence is on your left and the gate to the large building is on your right.  Move forward until you reach the intersection.  At this intersection you should see a body of water in front of you.  Turn right at this intersection.  Move forward.  There should be a large building along your right while you walk.  Continue moving straight until you reach the end of the large building on the right.  You should have passed through one intersection.  If you look to the right, there is a metal structure that is rusted on one side.  There is a lamppost that is located directly in front of the metal structure.  On the lamppost there is a small white sign with red writing.  Touchdown is located on this sign. Move in the direction of traffic. Turn left at the intersection. Pass the blue dumpsters on the right, and turn left at the next intersection. Turn left at the next intersection, as well. Stop just after you pass the large silver ladder on your right. If you look to your right, you will see a red, white, and blue barbers pole. Touchdown is sitting on top of that.   Follow the flow of traffic, with the white storefront to your right. and make a left at the intersection. Continue down the block and make a left, with the gray building on your left. Pass the line of bikes on your right and make a left at the intersection. There is now a brown apartment building on your right, go down the block and make your last left, passing the glass arched windows on your right. Stop when you reach the white building with the red signs, on your right,  near the building with the arched, glass windows. Touchdown is on the door handles of the beige door of that white building. If you are in the correct position there is going to be a bridge to your left and a bridge to your right. The bridge to your left is much higher than the one to your right. Please head straight in between the two bridges.
When the road deadens please turn right.
To your right you should see a fence with razor wire on top into the left see more Street.
Continue straight until you reach the intersection and turn right. On your right side should be a building is made of brick with a green awning. On your left side is another brick building with a green awning. Continue straight past those buildings. On your left keep an eye open for red fire hydrant this is between the first building on the left in the second building on the left touchdown is sitting directly on top of the fire hydrant. Align yourself with the flow of traffic. Follow this road up and make a left, you will follow this road and make another left. Go down this road until you see a school bus, align yourself with the school bus on your right. Go forward two steps, and there should be a wooden door on your right. Touchdown is on the top stair of the wooden door. From the starting position, face in the same direction as traffic. You'll see some construction vehicles ahead to your left. Move straight in the same direction as traffic. Go straight through a traffic light. Then go straight through another light. Straight through a third light, and stop at the 4th light that you come to. You'll see a gas station just ahead to your right. There is a logo that kind of looks like a green and yellow sun on the top of the gas station on top of the pumps. Touchdown is on that logo. Turn yourself to face the flow of traffic with a light up ahead.
Go straight until you reach this light at an intersection. 
Once in the intersection, turn right. 
Continue straight, passing a fenced in field on the left. 
Keep going straight, you will see a straight light up ahead. Move until you are standing in the middle of this intersection with the light.  
Look to the right and you will see a trashcan sitting on the corner in front of a light pole that has crosswalk lights on it. Touchdown is sitting on top of the trashcan.  Face the same direction as traffic and travel ahead towards the traffic light ahead.

At the traffic light turn left.
Cafe now to your right.

Travel straight ahead leaving the orange/white barriers to you right side, arrive at the intersection and turn left.
After turning you will pass straight though the first intersection just ahead and start paying attention to your right hand side.

Travel into the crosswalk at the second intersection and stop.

See slightly ahead and to the right a red vertical post, Touchdown is sitting on top of it.






 Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic there is a white and orange barrier on your left. Go to the first traffic light and turn left.At the next traffic light turn left and move just a few feet and you will see 4 blue and whit signs on your right and Touchdown is sitting on the sign that is closest to you on top of hat. With your back to the alley, face the nearest intersection and make a quick right and another right. There will now be a green awning on your left. Continue past it and make a right at the first intersection. Pass the red awning on your right, make a right before fully passing under the overpass and stop. You will now be in an alley with graffiti on the walls. Touchdown is on the center, front of the air conditioner, which is on the first floor window to your right. Enter the intersection that you are so close to and make a right turn. On your right will be a steel corrugated panel over most of the corner. The left side of you will be a red brick building that has light colored brick inset into it. Go straight. You will keep going straight at the 3 way intersection. Go straight at the next intersection too. At the next intersection make a right. Once you have turned there are red awnings on the building to your left. You will go about halfway down this long block. You'll go past a green awning with white stripes on the right side. You'll go past a green awning on the left side. When you see basketball courts on the right you are just about there. Go forward just until you are next to the last part of the courts. If you turn right there should be a black rectangle on the tall fencing right in front of you. Touchdown is on that rectangle in the middle.  Go in the same direction as traffic.  You'll come to an intersection almost immediately.  Go through straight through this intersection.  When you come to the second intersection, go right.  There will be construction barrels on your right.  Go to the next intersection and turn right again.  There will be a bright red garage door on your left.  Go to the next intersection; turn right one last time.  There will be a white storefront and yellow chairs on your right.  Go down this street.  Stop just before you cross over the crosswalk.  Turn to your left.  There is a yellow and orange construction cone on the sidewalk.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this cone.   Orient yourself so that you are going down the narrower of the streets (only one lane) in the same direction as traffic.  There should be a blue restaurant on your left, with red metal fire escape ladders  on the wall coming down from the upper floors.   go down one block, turn left.  go down the block and turn left again, and go down one block and turn left.  when the navigation finally lets you turn left, you should see a row of bike parking posts on your right, and a bright yellow pedestrian sign on your left.  Touchdown bear is on the sidewalk at the base of the yellow sign post. Turn so that the military vehicle is on your left.  Continue forward.  Take your first right, then the next right.  Step out of the intersection, and then look towards the left.  There is a bike with a basket on front.  The bear is in the basket.   Face so you're following traffic into the sun, with yellow leafed trees to either side of you, and proceed to the next intersection.  Take a left, go to the next intersection, and take another left.

Go left at the next intersection enough you're not in the middle of it, and turn to face left. You should be staring at a concrete island with two white poles, a metal grate to its right, and a large grey metal pole to the right of that. You will be standing directly in the crosswalk, in other words.

The touchdown is on top of the white metal post nearest to you. Turn around until there is a yellow taxi right in front of you. Go forward and head down the street. Keep going straight all the way down to the end of the street until you come to the intersection. Go to the middle of the intersection and look toward the blue bikes. The bear is on rear wheel of the first blue bike. Position yourself so you're moving with the flow of traffic. There will be very large bright blue doors on your right. Go straight through the crosswalk just ahead until you get to the first intersection with traffic lights and turn left. A large red sculpture will be on your right after you turn. 

At the next intersection, turn left. There will be a tree with white lights on your left  and several trees in a row with colorful lights on your right. A short distance ahead there will be a pedestrian crossing with red signs on either side. Go straight though the crossing and you'll see a glass revolving door on your left. Touchdown is sitting on the ground at the entrance to this door. Turn yourself so you are going with the flow of traffic and are fairly close to the next intersection. Go to that intersection and turn right. You now see a red, white, and blue store sign with some polka dots on it to your right, and some green awnings to your left. Go straight down the long street until you come to the stoplight. Go straight through the intersection until you reach the opposite side and stop.  On your right, you should see a bright pink/purple sign on the side of the phone booth. There is a picture of a man on the right side of the sign. Touchdown is covering the man's face. Turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  There should be a yellow sign with black stick figures on the sidewalk to your right, and a yellow metal gate directly to the right of you.  

Walk forward, and stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to.  Turn to your right and look down a street with a long row of diagonally-parked cars.  Walk down this road, and be careful that the map does not take you back onto the road that you just came from.  If the row of parked cars stays on your right, you are on the right track.  

Walk straight down this road for a while, and look for basketball courts behind fences on your left.  Just before the corner, you should see a black fire hydrant with a silver top.  Touchdown the Bear is sitting on top of this hydrant. Begin so you're moving with the flow of traffic. A single blue rental bike will be on your right. At the first intersection, turn right. Just past an orange and white construction barrier on your right will be another intersection. Turn right when you get there. 

After you turn, you'll see a business on the right with a red awning, and one on the left with bright green signs and large windows. When you get to the next intersection, turn right once more. Go through one set of traffic lights, and you'll almost immediately be at another set. Don't go through this intersection. Stop at the crosswalk and look to your right. There is an orange and white construction barrel on the corner. Touchdown is sitting on top of this barrel.  Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. There should be some construction going on to your left and up ahead.

2. Follow this road for a while. When you reach an intersection, take a left. There should be a white-and-yellow-striped awning to your right and a few dark blue awnings to your left.

3. Take another left at the next intersection. There should be a sign with three stripes (orange, green, and red) to your left and a sign with a red concentric circles on your right.

4. Follow this road for a while. Keep an eye on the right for three dark gray awnings followed by a little bit of scaffolding. When you're standing directly in front of the scaffolding, stop.

5. On the very left side underneath the scaffolding, you should see a black fire hydrant between two bollards and a bike leaning up against it. Touchdown is sitting on the bike's seat.

Good luck! :) Go down the street such that the playground with green equipment and the green tents are to your right.

Go straight through two lights.  Stop when you're almost at the end of the chain-link fence on your left, and can see a bus shelter just ahead and to your left on the other side of the entrance way. Touchdown is atop the round blue and red sign with the white bus. Go in the direction that puts the bus stop to your right, away from the nearby intersection. Navigate straight through the next intersection. The building on the right will have a red white and blue flag painted on it. Make a right at the next intersection, you will have the bridge to your left. Pass through the first three way intersection. At the next stop sign you will continue straight and you will see a pole to the right with a few signs on it, one of them being neon orange. You will stop next to this pole. To your left will be a fenced in area with construction materials and to your right will be the pole but you will not be able to see the front of the signs anymore. Directly ahead of you there is a cement barrier on the next road and there is a pole with two yellow reflectors near the bottom and a white with black sign at the top. Touchdown is in the center of the white with black sign.  Turn yourself so you are going with the flow of traffic.  Go to the intersection and turn left. Go straight to the next intersection and turn left again. Go straight for a good distance until you start to see the next intersection.  Before you reach that intersection, start looking to your right.  You should see a large trash dumpster covered by a blue tarp  Just past the dumpster is a gray and white porta-potty. Touchdown is sitting on top of the porta potty.  Position yourself so you are going with the flow of the traffic and take a right at the first intersection. You should see many different colorful pillars to the left all the way up the street. Follow this until the next intersection and take another right. There should be a rack of blue bikes you are passing. Go past the white truck and continue until you see the blue trash cans on the right. Your touchdown will by in the middle of the air conditioner.  Follow the cars and walk to the next intersection.  Turn right.  Go forward to the next intersection.  Turn right again.  Walk down this road.  You will see a building with a green sidewalk cover on your left.  Go past that.  Once you pass it there will be 2 mailboxes on your left.  The bear is on the top of the right mailbox. Go WITH cars RIGHT at the light. Go STRAIGHT THROUGH TWO lights. The red strip painted on the asphalt will be on your right as you move.

STOP when you're at the building at the left corner with white framing with gold letters and gold framing above it. ROTATE LEFT and you should be looking at descending steps in the sidewalk with two light posts and black fencing.  Above the main glass door on the far left are three dangling lights.  

FIND Touchdown impaled on the middle, lowest hanging light above the shop's door. Turn so the red steps are on your left and the yellow storefront is ahead of you on your right.  Move forward until you reach an intersection, and turn left.  
You'll now have a red painted lane on the right side of the street.  Go forward to the first intersection (it's close), and turn left again.  
Now the building on your right has murals on it (mostly clouds above street level).  Move forward until you're even with the last mural column at street level (looks like gold swirls on a red background).  The bear is on the sidewalk right against the building at the base of this mural column. Turn yourself so that you are going with the flow of traffic on the right. A playground and soccer field should be on your right. Go straight.  Do not take the right exit. You will see a bridge growing closer.  When you get near the top of the hill you are climbing (before your reach the bridge), look over the edge of the barrier to your right.  There will be an older brick apartment building just before you get to an intersection with a traffic light. Just before you enter the intersection, there is a silver pole with several traffic signs.  A larger green rectangular sign on top should be the most visible to you.  Touchdown is in the middle of that sign. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and the orange/white barriers on your left.  Head down this road alongside the barriers and hang a right at the first intersection.  On the corner on your right will be a blue trimmed restaurant.  Head forward and go straight through the next intersection.  When you do you will see bright blue fire escapes on the left. Turn right at the next intersection where the scaffolding on the right wraps around the building.  Move down the street and stop just before the door in the light green wall to your left.  You will see a black lamps on each side of the doors.  Touchdown is hiding out in the framed glass below the left lamp.

 Turn and go in the same direction as the traffic. Orange and white barricades on the left. Before you go in front of a large white building on the right you will see 2 orange and white barrels on the left and touchdown is sitting on the first one.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Turn right at the next intersection and you will have black awnings on the left and a black awning jutting out on the right.  Go straight through the next intersection and turn right at the next.  You should see red awnings on your left and a food cart on your right once you do.  Head down past some road work with orange, white and yellow barriers around the manholes.
As you approach the next intersection, you should see a dark pole with a blue band on the left.  Touchdown is on this blue band.
 You're starting in a four-way intersection.  On one corner there's a building with construction scaffolding that forms a sort of balcony over the sidewalk (trimmed in dark green).  Turn so that you can see that building on your right.  Go forward out of the intersection so you're passing that building with the balcony on your right.  At the next intersection, turn left.  This block has a long row of blue rental bikes parked along the left side.  The first four-way intersection you come to isn't a real intersection - it's a pedestrian only option to your left and right.  Pass straight through this, and continue to the next, real, four-way intersection.  Turn left, and you'll be on a block with construction scaffolding on both sides.  Walk to the end of the block and turn left. Stop as soon as you've turned left.  Ahead of you on your left is a building with a dark blue awning and large potted plants.  The bear is on top of the potted plant closest to you.  Go into the nearest intersection. Look for the ramp of the walkway and hot dog cart to the right and go in this direction. Turn right at the next intersection. Red awing on the building on the corner. Turn right again at the next intersection. Look right and stop before the coke machine to the right. Look for the gray pick up truck with the orange cone in the back. Touchdown is sitting on top of the orange cone. You are right next to some green mailboxes. Get them on your right side and head down the street going against traffic.  Go to the intersection and make a left turn. Go straight. When you reach the first intersection go straight through then go forward a short distance more. If you look to your right there is a clock over a door. There is a mailbox on the street in front of that. Touchdown is on top of the mailbox.  Follow traffic to the light and go left. Go left at the next light. Make a final left at the light thereafter.  You'll see a building to your right with a pink triangle and a brown door.

Go to the end of the block, passing the blue bikes on your right, and stop when you're standing on the crosswalk at the light.  Rotate right, and you'll see a heavily graffied olive mailbox next to a blue one.  Touchdown is centered atop the blue one.
 Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street. Go straight until you reach an intersection, and go straight through it.  You'll pass an orange and white construction barrier on your left, then an Irish pub on the right.  Then you'll pass construction scaffolding on the right, and another Irish pub. Then you'll come to an area where the building on your left is basically a plain brick wall (with a few darker panels at street level). On your right is a theater with a wavy red marquis.  Stop when you're just at the far end of this theater's marquis.  Look to the right and there's a poster on the wall with a vertical row of stars.  The bear is on the top-most star. Orient yourself to be heading in the same direction as traffic.  Continue straight through the first intersection than turn right at the second intersection.  At the end of the block, the building on the corner  a light beige color and have a very plain wall.  Turn right at this corner.    Travel down one block, and stop after the construction area on the right.  If you look to your right , there are orange and white barracades close to the construction area.  Touchdown bear is on top of the yellow circular reflector in on top of the first orange barrier  With the bridge on your left, go forward until you can take a right at the intersection (where there's a fenced play area on your right). After passing the play area continue to the next intersection. You'll see, on your left, a set of stone steps. The touchdown is in the middle of the white painted strip on the sidewalk in front of them. Turn so your facing the direction traffic flows. Go straight through the first intersection. Keep an eye on the right side as you move up the block. You will see two open bay doors with a garbage truck parked in one of them. Stop in front of the first open bay door. Touchdown is on top of the yellow concrete post to the right of the first bay door. Follow the flow of traffic and turn right at the intersection.Keep going straight for a while and then turn right at the first intersection. There is a blue bus stop sign on the right. The touchdown is on the round sign with the white bus. Orientate yourself so you are going AGAINST the direction of traffic. At the first intersection stop in the middle of it and look to your right. 
See the orange Barrel traffic cone on the sidewalk .
Touchdown is sitting atop that traffic cone Go with the flow of the traffic. You should see a a garbage truck on the right. Follow this road. Go through the first intersection, 2nd, and 3rd and 4th intersections. The one after this, you should come up to and on the right, there should be a number on the brikc building. On the left is a white truck. Your touchdown will be the top middle of the black garbage can on the right.  Turn so that the row of trash cans with black, green and blue lids are on your left. Follow the cars. Pass the rental bikes. Turn right at the intersection. Go straight with the orange cones on your right. Turn right at the intersection. When you reach the next intersection, turn right again. Pass the American flag. There will be a brick building on the right and a building for rent on your left. Touchdown is in the middle of the for rent sign.  Follow traffic and turn right at the third light, where you'll have green walls above orange and white k-walls on your right.  You'll see two inset doors in the blue brick wall on your left. Stop after the first door, rotating to face left.

You should be staring at a rusty green pipe grate in the wall, with a black metal square drain in front of it.  Touchdown is dead center of the green pipes, sitting on the black grate. Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Move ahead to that intersection, and turn left. Go forward until you have a small 3-way intersection (with an orange porta-potty). Veer right to go down that small road. At the next intersection, turn left, then veer left soon after.  In the center of that intersection/median is a yellow diamond sign with 2 black arrows. Touchdown is on that sign. Face the flow of traffic and step into the intersection.  Turn left and you'll see a blue awning on your right and some orange cones on the right.

Go forward to the next intersection and turn left.  You'll see trees hanging over the street.

Follow this road to the intersection and turn left.

Move forward until you're almost at the next intersection and face right.  You'll see a yellow box on a stand next to a blue box.  Touchdown is on the top of the yellow box. Turn and go in the same direction as the traffic. Orange and white barrels to your left. Turn right at the intersection. Green awning to the right. Go straight thru the intersection. Two Red and yellow umbrellas to the left.Go past  3 garage doors to the right. Then a construction area with cones and barriers on the right. Before you get to intersection there will be a tan building to the right. Look for a white and black sign next to the street. Touchdown is in the middle of the sign.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Move forward, just barely so you can turn right.  Do so.
You should see scaffolding on your right.
Go forward until you are just past the last large open door on your right.
Look up and right and you'll see a gold and brown sign with lettering on it on the building immediately to your right.  Touchdown is at the bottom point of this sign. Turn so you can drive with traffic.  A store with a burgundy awning and red letters on the sign above will be on your right.  Proceed forward and turn right, keeping that burgundy awning on your right.  Stop just after you enter this street and look down at the sidewalk.  Touchdown is sitting on the left top corner of the red newspaper box, like he is leaning on the green mailbox for support. Follow the direction of the traffic, make a right while under the overpass. Follow the construction on your left, and stop at the corner of the first intersection. Touchdown is on your left, in front of the purple circle with the arrow. Go with traffic, the play ground will be on your left. Turn left at the intersection.
Turn left again at the next intersection. The same play ground will be on the left.
Look left for the four blue doors and move slightly pass them and stop when your looking back at the black moped. Touchdown is sitting on the light on the front of the moped. Turn so that you are facing the main road construction and a building with a ripped blue awning is in front of you.
Go straight ahead, into that construction  area leaving said awning to your right , you may have to shift left and right a bit before being able to go ahead.
Now go straight down this road, there are no turns.
You will keep travelling ahead leaving the jersey barriers to your left, in a short time the construction will end keep going straight, keeping the median  to your left. Where that median ends stop and turn to look to your right, there is a fire hydrant on the sidewalk with a missing cap, Touchdown is sitting on top of the hydrant Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Move forward, passing a yellow building on the left, straight through an intersection, following a brick retaining wall on the left.  After the brick wall, you'll pass a metal wall on the left.  Just after the metal part, there's cement blocks making a pillar and then a pole that looks rusted with a red and white sign.  Touchdown is hiding on the red part of this sign. Align yourself with all of the wood on your left. Head through the intersection and keep straight until the next intersection, and take a left.

Head almost until the three way intersection, after the building with the steps to the entrance, and before the tan building with a fancy design. There should be three potted plants in the entrance of the designed building. Touchdown is sitting on top of the first pot in the entrance, closes to you. Turn around and align yourself against the parked cars. Head past the first turn, and up to the first right, and take it.

Nearing the next intersection, stop in front of the white sedan parked at the end of the road. You should see a bike tied to a pole there. Touchdown is on the seat of the bike. Turn so the row of trash cans is on your left and all the potted plants are on your right.  Go forward until you come to an intersection, and turn left.  
On this block you'll have construction scaffolding on your right. Go to the other end of this short block, and stop just before you step onto the crosswalk of the intersection. On the right side, you'll see a blue mailbox.  The bear is on top of the mailbox. Stand with the huge stone arch ahead of you. Moving with the flow of traffic, move ahead a bit until you can turn. Turn left and follow the path that goes underneath along a similar path to the bridge above you. At the intersection, turn right, and immediately there is a 3-way turn. Turn left here, then move ahead and there will be another 3-way turn. Take another left.

Now you should be on the right side of the road. Move ahead to the next intersection and stop in the center of it. ahead on your left is a black trash can. Touchdown is on top of the trash can. Orient yourself so that you'll be walking parallel with the overpass to your right.   You'll need to turn left here.  But walk until your closest to the light to turn, so that you'll be walking along the construction zone.  You should be right next to the construction fences to your right. Go straight.  At the next light, turn left.  Go into the tunnel ahead.  Halfway through, there will be a fence to your left with a red sign with white writing on it. Touchdown is in the center of this sign.  Move forward along with traffic, you should see green rectangular road signs ahead and some scaffolding and light grey walls on your right.  Go under the green rectangular road sign and  turn right at the intersection with the three traffic cones.   Continue straight, and you should have a construction site on your right and pass yellow boxes on your left.  Halfway down the block, you should see some pictures on the right side.  Stop when you see the picture of an airport and many airplanes.  Touchdown bear is in the center of the dark grey rectangle that looks like it is sticking out from the picture of the airport. Move one step into the intersection and turn left. You should be passing under a Buses Only sign and see a red awning building a little ways down on the left side of the road if your going the right way.  Go straight through the first intersection, passing the metal scaffolding on your right. At the next intersection, go straight again. At the next intersection, turn left. You will see a red brick building on your left, with a green awning. Move passed the first green awning, there will be a small break. There will then be another smaller green awning. If your facing it, directly to the left of the door with the small green awning, there is a small potted tree, in a white pot. The touchdown is sitting on the top of the tree.  Go with traffic to the light and go right.  Go right again at the next one.

You'll pass scaffolding on your left and a blue building with yellow bollards on your right, and then a red dumpster with a blue tarp.  Stop after you pass the construction area behind the black fence on the right. Rotate right. Touchdown is atop the hydrant between the yellow pipes.

 Turn so that the windows on your right have red rectangles above white paper covering them. Enter the intersection and go right. The brick building to your left has green tape around it's doors. Go through the next intersection. The corner store on your right will have rainbow colored apples on the corner. Stop in the middle of the next intersection you come to. Straight ahead on your right is a red post. Touchdown is sitting on it.  Orient yourself with traffic and proceed. At the light, turn left. At the next light, turn left again. Turn left at the next light as well. Stop just before the next light, nearly returning to the start of the route. Behind you to your left is a mural of a female. Touchdown is on her nose. Go down the street with the orange and white barrels blocking the street, with two food carts to the right.
Turn right at the first intersection.
Turn right again at the next intersection, you will see a large red dumpster on the right.
Go straight at the left turn only street. 
Go straight at the next left turn only street. 
Stop when your behind a gray van with a white torch on it to your right.
Touchdown is sitting on the highest point of the first flame of the torch.
 Position yourself where you should be close to a traffic light. Head toward the traffic light and make a left turn. Once you made a left turn continue forward passing all of the yellow taxi cab on your left till you arrive at another intersection. Make a left turn at the intersection. Head forward til you arrive at an intersection but you should notice a building on your right that has three awning. You want to pass the first one but be in between the first and second that is close to the red fire hydrant. The touchdown is sitting on the seat of the bicycle which is close to the intersection on your left. You're going to want to go with the flow of the traffic. There should be a truck in front of you with yellow cars to the right. Follow this road all the way down to the intersection then take a right. You should see a red and white food sign on the left, blue place on the right. Go down this road, go past the stop signs and into the next intersection and take a right. There should be a park on your left now. You should see SCHOOL on the ground. Look to the right, there are two poles. Your touchdown will be the top of the pole closest to you. Follow traffic to the intersection and go left down the road with the green wall to your left side and the scaffolding to your right side.

Go through the intersection you come to and walk until you're almost at the end of the concrete barriers on your left, and where there is a gap in the green wall behind the scaffolding to your right side.  

If you look left, you should see, between two plain concrete barriers (one being the final one in line), the last barrier to have 5 orange diagonal stripes on it.

Touchdown is sitting at the top of the very middle orange diagonal stripe. Go with the flow of traffic to this first intersection and take a right turn.  The windows to your left have brown paper covering them.  Go to the next intersection and  turn right.  You'll have a fenced court to your right. Go straight through the next intersection. (it's tricky here. Veer left, then veer right).  When you're going the correct way, you'll have two olive mailboxes and a blue mailbox to your right and a small park to your left.  You'll pass all the scaffolding on your left.   Look for the glass door that has a red edge on your left it's just a few doors down past the scaffolding.  Touchdown is leaning against the bottom of the door in the center. Face the nearest intersection and proceed through it. Turn right at the next light. Make a VERY hard right at the next light and head down a ramp under a bridge. Pass a camera on the right wall and stop before the second bridge and its signs. Touchdown is on the arrow of the white sign. Orient yourself so the park with green triangular roofs are on your right and the tall black chain link fence is on your left.  Follow this road to the intersection ahead and turn left.  You'll see some orange awnings on your right now.  Travel down this short block and turn left at the intersection.  There will be a brown and orange awning on your right now.  Look to your left as you travel down this road and stop when you are next to the 5 blue doors on the left in the middle of the grey building.  Touchdown is sitting on the white square in the middle of the blue door in the middle of the five doors. Follow traffic to the end of the block and go right. Walk through the first intersection and continue until you you're just before the red brick building with arches and crosses on the right hand side.  Turn to your right, and you should be facing a grassy treed area behind an iron wrought black fence.  Rotate slightly to your right (it's important you be at the vantage point described) and you'll see a black fire hydrant with a white cap to the left of a rusty metal pipe which is the same height as the hydrant.  Touchdown sits on top of the rusty pipe. Go against traffic, with the treed median to your right and go left at the light.  Now going with traffic, you'll be on a very narrow street, with a building having large glass windows and green on a grey sign on many to your left.  Go past the first light, which will have green awnings on your right before it.  Stop before the next, when you're at the pillar between the first and second of the three black awnings on your right.

There's a green pole with a yellow base with a square white sign with red text in front of the middle awning on the sidewalk. Touchdown is in the center of it.
 Orient yourself so that you are facing the same direction of the traffic and the trees in the median are on the left.  Go straight through the first intersection and the second.  At the third intersection, the first time you are able to do so, turn right.  Go down this narrow two lane road with major construction on your right.  At the end of the long block, right before you enter the intersection, look to your right.  There is a chain link fence that surrounds a parking lot at the corner.  Look for the pole that forms the corner of the fence.  The bear is on top of that pole. Go with traffic flow to the next corner and turn right. 

Go down this street, go through the 3-way intersection to the next intersection.

Before you go into the intersection, turn to your left and there will be 3 shorter cement posts on the edge of the sidewalk. There is a red fence behind them surrounding a parking lot. Touchdown is on the cement post that is farthest to the right.

 Turn so that the median is on your left side. Go straight to the intersection. Make a right turn. Once you get turned there is a flag pole and flag to your right in front of a blue building. Go straight. You will pass a small street on the left side that actually looks like it goes into a parking lot. Keep going straight. You will come to a 3 way street that has a real regular street. Keep straight again. You should see a red awning that goes all the way around on a building ahead on the right. Go only a little way down the road you will not reach that red awning. Stop next to the first little tree on the right side. Touchdown is up on the first little branch on the left side of the tree.  From the starting position, turn around so that you the huge glass building is to your right/in front of you. Move forward toward the small underpass or tunnel-looking thing. Go through the tunnel. Once through the tunnel, turn right at the end of the roadway. The glass building will again be on your right. Move down this road until you get to a crosswalk, and the doors for the building will be on your right. There is a small iron barrier fence on your left, and next to that is a light pole. Halfway up the light pole is white sign with red writing. Touchdown is on that sign. The large blue building should be on the left side of the street. Start going forward to the first intersection. Go right at this intersection. Continue forward down this road until you reach an intersection with just a road that goes right. There is a light at the crosswalk, take this right turn. Both sides have a  large fenced in yard. You will pass a sidewalk that goes to the right on the right side and on the left there will be a red brick walkway. Once you see those, on the right side there is a small gate that is open on the right side leading into the yard. The Touchdown is in the center of the open gate door.  Go in the direction that the traffic is going and make a left at the first light. There should be bike racks on your left. Go down that block and stop when you get to the steal building on the left with circles going up it. Touchdown is on the yellow diamond sign in front of that building to your left. Align yourself so that the green awning with numbers is on your left. Head up to the intersection following the flow of traffic to make a right. You'll make another right at the next intersection, and another final right at the next one after that. You should see a black sign with gold letters in script to your right. Stop just past the words, and you'll find touchdown on the last lamp of the sign on the right. Facing so that the scaffolds are on the left and the yellow and green busses are behind you, go to the next intersection. Make a left and go through the intersection and under the overpass. At the next intersection turn left. There will be a poster with bowling pins on the left, and a row of short metallic cylinders on the sidewalk. At the end of the row of cylinders is the opening to a parking garage. Touchdown is in front of the orange cone closest to the street on the far side of the entrance . Face the intersection right next to you and go through it.
Turn right at the next intersection that will put an almost completely black storefront on your left ahead.
Turn right when the road ends at a bright orange door.
Turn right at the next intersection and you will see orange cones up ahead.
Towards the end of the construction, past the red awning on the left is a fire hydrant.  Touchdown is at the base of the hydrant.
 Turn to the right to go with the flow of traffic. Go straight over the speed bump to the intersection. Once at the intersection, turn right. Go to the next three-way intersection. Turn right. Again, go with the flow of traffic past a red dump truck on your left. Keep going down the road until you find a brownish and white striped cloth overhang on your left. Turn toward the overhang. Touchdown is above the overhang in the bottom left corner of the left-side window. Orient yourself in the direction of the intersection. Take a right around the green post to the right. Go straight ant take a right around the building with large glass windows. Go straight and note the vacant lot on the left. When reaching the house on the end of the lot, stop. Touchdown is on the top of the stairwell. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the green scaffolding on the right and left ahead of you. Continue forward to the next intersection and go straight. Stop immediately and turn to your right and you will see a wooden  telephone pole at the corner of a green fence. Touchdown is sitting at the base of the telephone pole.  Turn yourself  so that the storefronts are on your left and the tall brick buildings are to your right.
Travel straight ahead on this road, there will be no turns.
Proceed through the first two intersections. As you approach the third intersection, notice the shuttered restaurant  with faded yellow awning on your left, there are two olive colored mailboxes directly in front of it.
Touchdown is sitting atop the mailbox on the right.
 Orient yourself with a black iron fence to your left and the stop sign just ahead and turn left onto this one lane one way street.

Shortly ahead is another traffic light, travel ahead to it and Turn Left.
There are now black iron fences to either side with foliage behind them.

Travel ahead, going straight though the first traffic light just ahead of you passing the parks on either side.
At the second traffic light, where the parks end, go straight though this intersection.

At the next intersection after that, you will turn left and see some blue and white vertical banners hanging from the building to your right side and a black and grey fire hydrant to the left.

Move slightly past this fire hydrant, rotate left and slightly behind you and find Touchdown on top of it.
 Continue through this first intersection and turn left at the next.  Take the next left and then stop.  There is a yellow box near a trashcan.  The bear is on top of the yellow box.   Turn yourself so the short pedestrian poles and bike path are on your left and start down the street.  At second intersection with a brick building with arches on your left, turn right. Continue to next intersection and go through intersection to the crosswalk, then turn left as you are in the crosswalk.  Touchdown is on the sidewalk in the center median at the base of the traffic light pole. Go in the direction of the nearest intersection, there will a red building ahead to your right. Go straight through the intersection. Not far after this intersection, on the right there will be a white and blue work van parked on the side with safety cones on the road near it, stop at this van. Touchdown is at the tip of the safety cone near the vans rear tire. Orient yourself so that a sidewalk of tables with two chairs is ahead and on your left. Proceed forward. Turn right at the first light. Then take the second right at the next light, and then barricades should then be on your left. Stop just after passing the doors for the first building on the right. There should be a bus stop sign on your right, and Touchdown is in the center of the blue circle. Orient you, yourself so the white brick building with yellow awnings is on your right, you are facing the same way as the traffic, and there is an intersection right in front of you.  Go straight through this intersection and continue down the road, passing the parking garage with a metal mesh wall on the left.  The next intersection is very wide, crossing over multiple lanes both ways and a divider.  You're going to want to continue straight across all of it.  You'll know you made it all the way across when there are brick walls on either side of you covered in colorful art.  Keep straight to the next intersection and turn left.  There will be a very tall beige stone building on your right that has metal over the windows.  Go to the next intersection.  Turn left for the last time and begin waking up the two direction street that has scaffolding on the right and graffiti covered brick on the left.  Watch the graffiti covered brick building on your left, when you reach the end of it, stop.  Look to your left and you should see a tree near the edge of the building by the road.  Touchdown is at the very tip top of the tree. Orient yourself so that the bright red doors are to your left. Take a right at the intersection with a green shop to the right. Go straight and at the intersection after the building with gothic lettering to the right, take a right. Go straight until  you see a slightly slanted air conditioner to the right. Touchdown is sitting on top of the air conditioner. Turn and face the same direction the cars are driving. Continue straight until the next intersection, then turn left. At the next intersection, take a left and make an immediate U-turn. You'll be going back where you came from, but on the other side of the carriageway. Continue past the next intersection until you see a store with yellow paint highlighting some concrete steps. There's also an entry to a basement that's painted yellow. Touchdown is just to the right of the entry to the basement, in the brown brick wall and yellow concrete corner. Follow traffic through the light, where you'll have the red stripe on your right, and go through the next light, a 3-way.  At the light after that, go right. Much green awning will be to your left.  At the end of the block there will be two orange k-walls to your right, just past a single white one.  Stop before passing it.  Instead, rotate right, where you should be facing directly the shop with the yellow band and green letters and see, in front of the very bright red building slightly to your right, a grey parking meter with a blue band. Touchdown sits atop it. Position yourself you are moving with the flow of traffic. A light red brick building with blue shutters and flower boxes will be on your left. Take this street all the way down to the first intersection and turn right. After you turn a blue canopy extends over a door on your right and a green one is over a door to your left. 

Go to the next intersection and turn right. Go down this road a short distance and you'll see a white building on your left with a blueish-gray door and fencing. On the second level of the building there are three balconies. The middle balcony has orange pumpkins on it. Touchdown is sitting in front of the large pumpkin.  Turn so you are going with traffic on your side of the road. Up ahead a little on the right is a grass area with a playground. Go straight into the intersection. Make a right turn. The grass and playground area is still going to be on the right and now there is scaffolding with a green cover to your left. Go just a short distance.You will not be quite next to the playground yet. Between the fire hydrant and the bus shelter on the right side is a rectangular sign sticking up out of the sidewalk. Get to where you are almost even with that and it almost looks like a pole now.. Touchdown is on the ground on the sidewalk on the street side of the rectangular sign. Orient yourself with traffic and proceed. Turn left at the first light. Turn left at the next light as well. Pass the orange and white barricades on your left and a store with various beer caps on the right. Stop after passing a parking garage on your left. A store next to the garage has a red circle logo on its door. Touchdown is in the center of the circle. Begin by turning to the left until you're looking down the street with graffiti on the buildings to the right. Move forward for a while until you're directly to the left of two traffic cones with a white and orange bar connecting them. Near that is a bike secured to a sign, and a woman is dragging a bag to the right of that. Touchdown is sitting on top of the bike's blue basket. Rotate until you are facing away from the nearest intersection, facing the same direction as the parked cars and moving traffic.
Proceed forward to the next intersection.
Turn left at the intersection.
Proceed forward to the next intersection.
Turn left at the next intersection.
Move a short distance away from the intersection, but do not move past the cross walk paint on the ground.
On the left hand side of the road, an underground entrance with two poles can be seen.
The bear is placed on top of the green glass globe atop the rightmost pole.
 Turn to face with traffic, then go to the next intersection. Turn left, on your left should be three flags with a US flag in the middle. Now go straight until just before the next intersection, there will be a building on your left with white lettering on the windows, and a building on your right made of a mix of stone and glass, with a mostly stone square section, and a rounded glass section above. Touchdown is in the pot with the first plant before the entrance, under an awning.  Orient yourself so that there is a green scaffolding wall to your left and a white van to your right. Move straight to the intersection and turn left.

There will now be that same green wall on your left again and a pharmacy on your right. Move straight to the next intersection and turn left again

There will now be that same green wall to your left and a chainlink fence on your right. Move forward to the next intersection and turn left. That same green wall will be on your left again (You're basically following this green wall the whole way.)

 Move forward. There will be a red dumpster on your right. Just past the dumpster is a light pole on the left. the touchdown is located at the base of it

. Go with the flow of traffic until you hit the intersection and take a right. You will see bikes on your left and a diner on your right that has a blue sign with white lettering. Go just past the crosswalk and you will see a very red sign with white lettering that has a bike attached to the pole. Your touchdown will be the middle of the bottom part.  Hello. Please orient yourself with the flow of traffic in the same direction as the parked vehicles. There will be a red vehicle to your right side. There will be a diamond shaped orange sign and black symbols ahead and to your left.

Go straight until you reach the three-way intersection. Turn right.

Go straight a short distance to the four-way intersection. Turn right again.

You will see yellow newspaper stands to your left side. There will be a black building with white letters to your right side.

Go straight down this long path. Keep an eye on your left side for a large green dumpster covered by a blue tarp. Slow down now. On the right side, you will see a parked white van with black graffiti on the side of it. Stop when you are standing next to this white van.

Touchdown will be in the middle of the rear tire of the white van, which is the tire closest to you. Good luck! Orient yourself with the three cones to the right and go straight. At the next intersection take a right. Go straight and take a right around the potted plant. Go straight through the next intersection and proceed forward until you reach a lot of parked cars to the right. Touchdown is in the front window of the shack. Begin so you're moving with the flow of traffic. There will be a vendor on your right selling fresh fruit. Go straight through the intersection that's just ahead of you. When you get to the next intersection, turn right. After you turn, there will be a short brick wall with black fencing above it on your left. 

At the next intersection you get to, turn right again. Now there is a business on your left with a bright orange sign. Walk forward, but stop right before the next intersection. Look to your right and you'll see a green utility box attached to a traffic light pole on the corner. Touchdown is sitting on top of that green box.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and you have scaffolding on your right.
Turn right at the next intersection.
You'll pass a couple of dumpsters on your right.
Turn right at the next intersection.
You'll see scaffolding on your right with an orange ladder, continue down this street.
Turn right at the next intersection.
You will once again see more scaffolding on your right with a red awning before that.  Continue down that road.
Turn right at the next intersection.
On your right you should see a building under construction and a covered walkway with some numbers on it next to the building under construction.
Go forward until you have the phone booth on your left next to you.  There's an animal on the phone booth.

Touchdown is on the nose of the animal. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  Ensure you are facing the correct direction leaving the intersection by locating the business directly on your left with black lettering and a blue shape with a square hole in the middle.
Leave the intersection and go through the next one.  You should see scaffolding on both sides of you.  Head through the next intersection as well.  You will immediately have scaffolding on the right and scaffolding ahead on the left.

You will finally need to turn right where the awning on the building to your right is striped purplish and orange.  Head down and you will get to a business with two large red awning/coverings over outside seating.  Go just past that business and you will see a white building on your right with gold statues and designs on it.  Touchdown is hiding on the gold centerpiece over the black rot iron platform below it. Go with the flow of traffic to the first intersection and take a left turn.  There will be green awnings on your right. Go to the next intersection and turn left. There will be rainbow flags on the awning  to your left.  Halfway down the block there will be scaffolding in front of a blue wall on your  left.  Touchdown is on top of the trashcan closest to the scaffolding. Turn so that the orange and white barrier is on your left. Walk to the intersection and turn left at the second street you can turn on. Walk to the next intersection and turn left again. Go forward a little bit, pass the big green doors on the building to your left, and keep going a little further until you another opening that is currently closed off. There should be a small bright magenta rectangle to the right of the opening. Touchdown is in the center of it.  Start by positioning yourself going towards all the construction, the bus, and the yellow cars. You're going to pass a smaller streetGo to the intersection and take a right that has a bunch of scaffolding on the right. Continue until the next one and take a right. Now you should see a food place on the left. Continue forward until you're almost at the intersection. You should see a black car to your left and a yellow on to your right. Your touchdown will be the sign on the tree in front of the yellow car.  Go into the intersection and place the large market to your left and go in this direction. A large pile black trash bags is on the opposite corner. Tun right at the first intersection. Look left, stop just pass Marge Simpson. Touchdown is sitting on top of Marge's blue hair. Stand so that the fenced area is ahead to your left. Move forward to the intersection and turn right. Go ahead to the next intersection and turn right again. Then there will be a 3-way/opportunity to go right. Go right there, and move about halfway down this block. On your right is an empty store with double glass doors. Touchdown is in between the doors. You will see a large part of a building that  has a glass windowed entrance to your right. With that on your right, head down the street the way direction buses are facing. Follow the end of that road as it turns left for a very short distance. Once you are to a regular road then turn left. Cross the intersection and keep going. When you reach the next intersection You will see a flagpole with two flags on it. Touchdown is at the base of that pole. With the large yellow and orange letters to your right, go straight to the next intersection and turn right.  Go through the first intersection and under the overpass ahead.  Once you're almost at the next light, look to your left and Touchdown is in between two circular vent located between the windows on that building (there at the taller tree's level). Face the same direction as traffic. There should be a red brick building on your left and scaffolding on your right. Go straight to the first intersection. You will see cars parked in a parking garage in front of you to the right. Take a left. Now you will have orange and white construction barriers on your right and a long green billboard on some scaffolding. Go straight to your next intersection and take a left. You will  see a restaurant on your left with a red and white sign. Align yourself even with the sandwich shop with a yellow sign on your left. Look to your left and you will see a green pole with a flower arrangement attacked to it. Touchdown will be in the flower arrangement. In the direction of traffic, go straight and take the first right. Go straight past some scaffolding to the right and reach the next intersection. Take a right. Toward the left there is a bush with two yellow diamonds. Touchdown is sitting on top of the diamonds. Orient yourself in which there is a black fire hydrant on your right and some trees on your left. Follow the road and continue forward passing the green awning on your left. Eventually you will pass a second green awning on your left and arrive at an intersection in which you should just continue forward. After passing the intersection you should notice a block area to your right. Pass the block area and you should see three man holes near the block area. Pass the three man holes and check your surrounding. On the left should be a red box near the curb. The touchdown is sitting on top of the box. Orient yourself so you are facing the silver van in a large archway, continue straight going under the archway until you reach the next intersection, You will pass by a metal fence on the left before reaching the intersection,Turn right at the intersection so you are facing two rows of cars with a white van on the right side,Look for a white work van with red lettering on the left side of the road, When you are in line with the gray van to your right press the red letters on the back of the white van  Turn so you are facing the closest intersection. Walk out into it and turn right.

Walk down this divided road with the median to your left. 

At the next intersection, turn right again. You'll have construction to your right.

Walk straight through one intersection, then make a right at the second one. Now you'll have a triangular island on your left.
 
Follow the curving road around until you are almost back to where you started. 

You'll pass scaffolding on your right. Just before you come to a 3-way intersection, stop. Ahead on the right corner is a grey/brown car with a tire cover on the rear door. Touchdown is on the round cover.

 Turn with the flow of traffic, and head forward.  You will be on here for a while.  Go under the bridge and continue.  You will approach a white/concrete building on your right with a lot of windows.  Halfway across stop.  There should be a freeway sign above you.  Look at it.  There are 2 arrows.  The bear is on the right one near the point. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Turn left at the next intersection with the bright orange awning to the left.
Turn left at the next intersection.  When you do you'll see a building with bright red pillars on your left and a large billboard up and to your right.
Go through the next intersection (where you can't turn left).  Just past that is an opening to the left with some building construction going on.  Turn left down that street.

You should see a row of blue bikes on your left and scaffolding on your right.
Turn left at the next intersection.

Keep an eye on the left side of the road.  Soon you'll see a street light followed by a black post with a blue band.  Touchdown is on that blue band. Align yourself with the intersection closest, with the yellow awning across the street on your left, and the parking sign on the scaffolding to your right. Head straight past these two 

At the next intersection, take a right. A few steps down, you'll run in to two school, buses on your right, above the left school bus is a brown awning. Touchdown is found on the numbers on the awning. Turn so that the orange and white barriers are on your left, then go forward until the next intersection. Turn right at the intersection and continue until the next intersection, then turn right again. Continue until you're underneath the building. There will be a white car parked on the right and to the left of the car is a red pipe/fire hydrant. Touchdown in on the red pipe. Step into the intersection and go with traffic. The park will be on your left and the green scaffolding and road barriers will be on your right. Keep straight at the first intersection.  Stop just before the glass bus stop on the right. With the bus stop in front of you and to the right, Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the bus stop bench between the two sliver arm rest. Turn so that you going in the same direction as traffic. There will be a store with a reddish awning on the left and an empty store on your right. 
Head down the street until you come to to the first street on your left. There is a large green container. Take a left here.
Take this street until you get to the stop sign. Take a right, then an immediate left. You will see a large white van with illustrations on it parked on the left side of the street, and a bicycle parked on the right sidewalk. Head down this street with traffic.
Go through the first intersection.  Go a little down the road until you see a building on the left with red doors. Stop here. Touchdown is on top of the green fire hydrant in front of this building.
 Stand so that you will walk with the flow of traffic. Go forward to the intersection and turn right. Then walk until the next intersection, and turn right again. Walk straight, passing brick buildings with a white and blue flag hanging to your right. Continue straight and you will see a red flag hanging to your right (just ahead of two pumpkins with googly eyes). Touchdown is on the red flag. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, so that the red awning is on your right side.

Head up past the first intersection, and stop when you're near the second. As you head up close to the next intersection, there should be scaffolding, and four red flags after on the building. Stop at the last flag, and you'll see two blue awning on your right. Touchdown is in the center of the symbol of the right awning. Turn so that you're facing the same way that the cars are driving. Go straight until the nearby intersection, then turn right. Keep going down the street until you see a store with blue covered windows on the left. Across from the store with the blue windows is a trash can. Touchdown is sitting on top of the trash can. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Go under the archway and stop right when you are at the end of it.
On your right is a rusted metal plate at the base of the archway.  Touchdown is at the bottom of it. From your starting point, turn around so that the orange and white barriers and orange mesh are on your left, and then walk forward into the intersection.  

Take a left at the intersection, and walk down the road that has more white and orange construction barriers along its right side.

Stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to, and turn to your left.  You should see a green fence on the left, and the arm of a yellow construction excavator visible above that fence.  On the right side of that street should be a row of white truck trailers parked behind a fence.  

Walk down this narrow street and just keep going straight, with the green fence on your left.  After you pass a gap in the green fence, ignore the side street on your right, and keep moving forward until you have passed the end of the chain-link fence on the left.

Stop here and look to the flatbed truck parked on your left.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the middle of the pallet at the back of that truck's bed. Turn so the fenced in area with trees is up ahead on your left just a bit. Turn left at that corner. When you turn that ornate fenced in area with the trees and greenery is still on your left.

Continue down this road going through the 3-way option, then through the next full intersection and through the 3-way after that. The median with trees and black fencing is to your right.  

Keep going to the next 3-way intersection and just through it until you reach a full intersection option. To your right is a trashcan made of metal slats. Touchdown is on top of that trashcan. Turn yourself to face the direction of traffic. The beige building should be to your right, and the glass building to your left. Walk straight until you come to an intersection.

At this intersection, there should be green walls hiding construction that will prevent you from going straight. Turn right at this intersection. 

Walk straight until you get to the next intersection. At this intersection, a tall orange and white building should be to your left. Turn right at this intersection.

Walk straight until you get to the intersection with a left hand turn. Continue straight just past the turn. On your right you should see more beige buildings, and an orange and white traffic cone sitting on the sidewalk. Next to this cone is a red and white sign attached to a pole. At the bottom of this pole is the touchdown. Turn so that the scaffolding is to your left and the blue store signs are to your right. Walk forward through the intersection to the one after it. Once you are there turn left. You should see trees on your left and a small orange sign on the street post to your right. Walk forward to the next intersection. Go straight through the intersection and stop right before the opposite crosswalk. You should see a red box to your right in front of you. Touchdown is on top of the red box. Turn so the apartment building with the grass lawn is on your right.  Walk forward to the intersection right ahead of you and go straight through it.  At the next intersection, turn right.  You'll now be on a street with a median strip with lots of plants in it.  Go one block to the next intersection.  As you move into the intersection you'll move a tad to the right, then a tad to the left.  After doing that, you'll have a four-way option - go right and then stop.  You'll be looking down a block with cars parked perpendicular to the sidewalk along the right side.  There's a small signpost behind the first parking spot.  The bear is in the center of that sign. align yourself to flow with the traffic and go through the intersection, there will be a bust stop to your right and a fenced in playground to your left. Follow to the next intersection, go straight and stop when you make it past the crosswalk, there is a bright red newspaper box to your left, the touchdown is on the sticker on that box When you begin moving down this one-way street, you will be going with the flow of traffic. A yellow railing leading up steps to a brown door with wide red trim is on your right. Go straight through the first intersection. When you get to the next intersection (there is no traffic light), turn left. Now, a red and beige striped awning is on your right and a mural is painted on a wall just ahead on your left. 

At the next intersection, turn left again. Walk past the grassy area with trees on your right. Now, there will be green scaffolding on your right. Just before that scaffolding ends, there is a pole with a yellow sign that has a picture of two people walking on it. Touchdown is right in the center of that sign.  Turn yourself so the construction scaffolding is on your left.  Head down the street and turn right at the first intersection.  Continue down that street and turn right at the first intersection.  You will pass a line of parked blue bikes on your left as you head down that street.  then on  your left will be a building construction zone.  Continue straight passing an orange construction barrier fence on your right.  Continue straight and pass a low orange plastic barrier fence on your left.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the last section of the barrier fence on your left. Stand so you are moving with traffic. Move straight until you eventually reach an intersection. Turn right. Move forward a bit, and you'll see green scaffolding on the right. At the first part of scaffolding that you reach, is a red sign. Touchdown is on the center of the sign. Go with traffic, a small fruit market will be on the left. Turn right at the first intersection. Keep straight at the next intersection, make sure to stay in the right lane of traffic. Stop right before entering the next intersection. Look right slight behind you, there is a black and sliver fire hydrant. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant.  Orient yourself in this intersection so that you have scaffolding to the right and none to the left.
Head down this road past some blue awnings on the left and some flags as well.
Go through the two red octagon shaped signs and the intersection they meter.
When you're almost at the next intersection, there will be three food carts with umbrellas on your left.  Stop just before the middle one.
Touchdown is on the blue wedge of the umbrella most visible near the intersection. 
 Move forward with the flow of traffic, so that you pass a few red awnings on your right at first. Continue until you reach an intersection and take a right turn.

Now pass a phone booth and newspaper boxes on your right, followed by scaffolding on the left. At the first intersection, take a right turn. 

Move down this one-way street until you reach the start of scaffolding on the left. Face left and there is a glass door with signs on it under the start of the scaffolding. Touchdown is in the center of that sign. You are close to an intersection. Go to the intersection and make a left. At the next intersection, turn around and go back the way you came. Go straight through the next intersection. You will have a temporary construction walkway to your right. Go straight through the next intersection, you will now have a temporary construction walkway to your left. At the next intersection turn right. You will see two blue flags to your right. Stop in front of the second flag. Look to your right and you will see a square black pole with a blue stripe at the top. Touchdown is on top of this pole. Go with traffic straight, down the road with the building having the red sign band on your left and the scaffolding on the right, to the end of the block and head right. Go through the next intersection and stop just after you reach the other side, where the crosswalk should be.

If you turn to your right, you should be staring at a black column between two white cityscapes in the window directly in front of you.  

Touchdown is on top of the black fire hydrant with the silver cap between the two metal pipes slightly to your left. Turn so you are facing the same way the parked cars are.  You'll pass a large fenced in park on the right.  Proceed until you reach the first intersection and turn right.  The red brick building on the corner is now on your right.  Proceed to the next intersection and turn right.  Enter the street and stop.  Look to your left.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the orange newspaper dispenser.  Go down the street with the blue bikes to your right, scaffolding to your left and make a right at the first intersection. There should now be scaffolding on your left and blue awning on your right corner. Follow the traffic and make a right at the first intersection. You will now have two underground entrances on both sides of you. Pass them and stop when you reach the dark, red awning with yellow letters on your right. Touchdown is on the yellow roman numeral on that awning. Turn so you are going with traffic. At the light take a left. Travel with traffic and take a left at the next light. Stop when you are beside the yellow delivery truck parked on the right side of the street almost at the next light. Touchdown is above the green burger logo on the sign to your right.  Follow the direction of traffic to the corner. At the far side of the intersection, there is construction scaffolding on both corners. On the left corner is a black street sign with a white arrow. Touchdown is in the middle of that sign. Go with traffic flow to the first intersection and turn left.

Again, go with the flow of traffic to the next corner and turn left. It will be a 3-way corner you turn left at. 

Go all the way down this road with traffic flow and turn left at the full intersection.

Going with traffic flow, go down to the next corner. Stop and look to your right to see a blue mailbox. Touchdown is on top of that blue mailbox.



 Follow traffic to the light and go right. Go right again at the next light, and make another and final right at the light thereafter.

The shop to your right has wonderfully comforting large yellow arches displayed in many places prominently.  Go just past it, and stop at the metal roll-down door between two yellow bollards, and rotate right to face it head on.

Touchdown is atop the left bollard. Find the brick building with a black and gold sign and make sure that's on your right.  Walk forward to until you run into the three yellow poles in the median and turn left.  Walk down to the intersection that is just past the rainbow flags on the plywood awning on your left.  Turn left.  Walk forward through the jog in the road, and when you have to choose a side at the point of the park, go to your right, putting the park on your left.  At the next intersection, you have to take a side step to your right in order to go straight.  Once you've cleared that intersection, stop and turn 180 degrees around so you're facing the way you came.  On your left, at the corner of the intersection you just came through is a silver pole that has various street signs on it.  One is a square orange one with black letters on it that's bent.  Touchdown is in the middle of that sign. If you check your surrounding to your left there should be a green pole with a yellow rectangle sign with an arrow point to the right. Head in the direction of the arrow. Midway you should arrive at an intersection but you want to skip that and continue forward until you reach another intersection. There should be a sandwich shop at the corner of the street on your right if you aren't sure if your in the right direction. Once at the intersection make a right turn. A few steps forward you should notice this long grey rectangle on your right with blue stripes that has a letter P. The touchdown is sitting on top of this thing. Turn and go with the flow of traffic and turn right at the first traffic light.You will be going against the flow of traffic.Turn right at the next traffic light and you will now be going with the flow of traffic there is a pizza joint on your left after you turn.As you get near the next intersection stop and on your left there will be 3 trees before the light and Touchdown is sitting at the base of the tree that is closest to you Go straight while facing the brown bridge with the city skyline in front of you and the water to your left. Stay on the right lane of traffic and get off at the first exit. Once you get on of the highway there will be a white building with a red check mark ahead of you. This will let you know that you are on the right path. Keep going straight and make a right at the first traffic light. After you make the right, Touchdown is at that corner on the fire hydrant to your right. Put the red car behind you.  Take the small step back, then cross the street.  continue until just before the next intersection.    There is a white building with green chairs on your left.  Stop and look in the door.  Above the painting is a black rectangle.  The bear is inside it at the bottom. Orient yourself so that a red pillar is in front of you to the left. Go straight through until reaching the next intersection with green, white, and red stripes to your right. Take a right. Take another right at the next intersection. Go straight until you go past a white cross to your left. Go slightly past two wooden doors to your left. Touchdown is sitting in front of those doors. Orient yourself so you are looking directly at the bank with the white sign and red lettering.  Move to your left and you will enter the intersection, go forward so that the bank is on your right side. Continue moving forward following the road as it curves to the right. You should see some trees surrounded by a yellow fence on your right. Continue moving forward to the next intersection and go straight. On your left in the median will be several bare trees. Continue moving down this road keeping to the right. As the road diverges it will curve to the right, continue following the road and keep an eye out for two metal electrical boxes on the right. Stop just before the electrical boxes and turn slightly right to face them. The Box on the right has a yellow smiley sticker. You will find touchdown on the sticker. Follow traffic and go through the next two lights. At the third, you'll see a playground with green equipment behind a black fence to your right after the intersection, but before it, a shop with bright blue awning and white glyphs on your left. Rotate left to face it.  The black fire escape bottom rung is below the blue awning. Touchdown sits atop that rung. Turn so the park is on your left and the brick buildings are on your right.  Go forward until you reach an intersection, and turn left.  On this new block you'll have the park on your left and construction scaffolding on your right.  Go forward until you reach an intersection, and make another left.  On this new block you'll still have the park to your left, and brick buildings with some arches on your right.  Move forward a bit until you're just about even with the start of those arches on the right.  You'll see that the first arch is filled in with bricks, and after that the arches are open.  You should be standing even with the "filled in" arch.  The bear is in the center of the light-colored panel in the center of the arch. Hello there!

1. Begin by turning to the right so that you're facing the intersection. There should be several trees to the left on the opposite side of the street. Take a left at this intersection. The aforementioned trees should now be on your right.

2. Move forward, passing through two intersections (a three-way and a four-way). Take a left at the next intersection. After reorienting yourself, there should be a storefront with a long red sign wrapping around the building to your right. Your destination is very close.

3. Move forward a little bit until you see that two mailboxes are directly to your right. To the left of the mailboxes and to the right of the entrance of the aforementioned store, you should see an object that looks like a yellow drain/hydrant. Touchdown is sitting on top of this object.

Good luck! :) Position yourself where you should notice a red banner with a dragon on your right. Follow that road until you reach the traffic light and make a right turn. Once you make a right turn there is a red brick building with bar windows on your left. Move forward until your at the other end of the building. The touchdown is sitting on the bottom window seal next to a gate that is to the right of window. Face the direction in which there is two large red trucks on a bridge in front of you. Go straight and take a right at the three way intersection. Continue straight there is a concrete barrier on your left. Take a right at the intersection facing the water. Go straight until you see a rectangular green traffic sign on your left. Touchdown is on the sign.  Turn so the bright red door is on your left and the intersection is in front of you.  Move into the intersection and go straight through it.  At the second intersection turn right.  You'll now have a closed store with a green awning on your right.  Go forward to the end of the block and turn right at the intersection.  After the turn you'll have a big fountain on your left.  Go ahead to the 5-point intersection.  Look for the corner that has the big green trash can with the domed top.  You want to go down the street that will put that trash can on your left side, and the little brick plaza with all the benches will be on your right.  Watch the stores on the left side on this block.  You'll pass a place with a bright red awning, and stop when you're just past that.  The next building has a navy blue awning over the sidewalk.  Stop so you're between the red awning and the navy blue awning.  The bear is right in the center of the red awning. Turn so that you are facing the same direction as traffic.
At the first traffic light up ahead, make a left turn. 
Travel straight ahead through one intersection and at the second intersection make a left hand turn. You should now see some blue bicycles on your right and a red storefront with a black awning to your left.
Shortly after you leave the bicycles on your right  notice the cafe to your right with 
flagpoles extending from the second floor and two wooden benches outside.

Touchdown is on the center of the first bench closest to you. Follow the direction of traffic, with the red and black awning on your right. Reach the third intersection and make a right. There will be a blue lettering on the building to your left and white lettering on the building to your right. Continue forward and stop when you see the red awning on your right, before the first intersection. Touchdown is on the image next to the store name on that red sign. Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street. Go straight until you reach an intersection, then turn left.  Go all the way to the end of this long block.  When you're in the middle of the next intersection, stop.  Turn to the corner on your right, where the really bright orange building is.  There is a green trash/recycling can on the sidewalk.  The bear is on top of the trash can. Look with the flow of traffic and instantly take a right. You should see a pink sign with white lettering on your left and a bunch of grey/white lettering on a black background on your right. Go to the next intersection and take a right. You should see green overhangs with white lettering on the left and scaffolding on the right. You should be passing blue bike son the left. Go to the intersection and you should see a brick building with red letters on it. You should see a black and red flag waving. Your touchdown is the tiny symbol on it.  Follow traffic to light and go right.  Go right again at next light.  Go right again at the end of the block, and stop before the crosswalk at the end of that one.

Ahead and to your left you can see 4 bell shaped bollards with white caps. Touchdown is sitting on top of the one closest to you.  Turn to face the dinosaur painted on the side of the building. Head towards the intersection in front of you. Turn right at the intersection. Take a right at the next intersection, but stop immediately. Looking straight ahead, you will see a blue bus stop sign to your right. Touchdown is in the center of the circle on the top of the sign. you are in the middle of an intersection face so that you have the building with green awnings on your left you will have to take a step to your left and then continue forwards 
at the next intersection take a left continue straight until just after the next intersection there is scaffolding on the left  once you are right at the end of the scaffolding take one more step forward there is a metal grate on the ground touchdown is in the middle of the edge closest to the scaffolding To verify you're in the correct position to your right should be a white store with red letters. It has yellow windows and sits on the corner. Directly across the street on your left is a building that has black windows and brick top. Please go straight down the street. If you are on the correct street you will see a green wall and some orange construction barriers on your left.
Please follow the street straight until you reach the first intersection then make a left.
If you turn on the correct road look to your left and you'll see a building with three blue awnings with white letters. To your right you will see some stores with large windows and lots of items displayed. Please continue straight.
Just before the next intersection if you look to your right you will see a building which has a blue awning with white letters. You will see at summer trashcan. Touchstone is sitting directly on top of the summer trashcan. Orient yourself so that there is a bridge ahead of you in the distance.  Head down the street.  You will reach a crosswalk.  Cross whits and look for a white sign with red lettering on a pole on your left.  Pass this as well.  Look for a similar white sign with red lettering this time on your right.  Pass this one as well then stop.  Turn 90 degrees to your right.  you will see that white sign with the red letterings (it looks bent up).  Touchdown is sitting in front of the red square on the upper left side of the sign.   Going with the flow of traffic, you'll go straight through this intersection.  At the next intersection, take a right turn.  The awning to your left will have horizontal lines. Go to the next intersection and take a right turn. Go straight through the next intersection. Just after the crosswalk to your left, will be two mailboxes.  Touchdown is on top of the first mailbox. Position yourself so the median is on your left and a red door is on your right. Go straight through the first intersection and stop at the second one. You want to end up heading the way you just came from, but on the street across the median. So, you'll be turning and left again immediately.  This will put a red awning and yellow and blue newspaper stands on your right. 

Go straight through the first intersection (the same one you just went through on the opposite side of the road). Before you get to the next traffic light, you'll see a bus stop on your right. When you're lined up with the bus stop, look to your left and find the red shopping cart near a tree in the median. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the shopping cart.  Move with traffic,go to the 1st intersection and take a right, and then take another right at the following intersection. There are blue awnings on the right, you will pass a dumpster on the left, take this street to the next intersection and make another right, there is a phone booth with a lion on the side. You will see a red awning over a set of stairs on the left, the awning has two matching numbers on the front, the bear is on the numbers Follow traffic, with the k-walls to your right and the vegetation filled median to your left and take a right at the light.  Go through the first set of stop signs  and go right at the next ones, stopping immediately after you clear the crosswalk.

Ahead on the left side of the street will be a yellow diamond sign with the silhouette of a man.  Touchdown is stuck to the center of it. Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic, and head to the nearest intersection. Turn left.   When this road ends, turn left.  Cross through the small intersection, but don't enter the large one.  Where the road curves to join the main road, there is an empty trash can on the left.  The bear is in it. Turn so the construction scaffolding is to your right, and the potted plants along the building that are under the scaffolding are also on your right.  There will be a round green trash can on your left.  Go forward, straight past the T-intersection where you have the opportunity to turn right.  Keep going straight until the next intersection.  Pass by the stop sign and the little street to the right.  At the main intersection, turn left.  You'll be on a larger street now, going with the flow of traffic.  Go straight through one intersection and past the building with the huge white columns on your left.  At the second intersection, turn left.  On your right will be a brick building with black fire escapes.  Stop when you're even with the last fire escape on that building.  At street level, you'll be between two black doors in the white stone/cement wall.  The door to the right has a board covering the vent over it.  The bear is in the center of that board.  Face the traffic light, with the green scaffolding to your left, behind you. Move forward and take a quick right. On your left, there will be green awnings. Continue past them down the block, go through the first intersection, pass the scaffolding on your right and stop after passing the second intersection. There will be orange/white cones on your right and a black store sign with a green square on your left. Touchdown is on that green square. Turn so you are facing the same way as traffic. The green covered scaffolding is on your left. Go straight to the end of the block. Make a left turn. Now there will be green awnings on the building to your right. Go straight one block. Turn left again. Now on your left side are lots of little multicolored flags on an awning. Go straight a little ways down the one way street. On the left you will see a red brick building then the buildings have lighter colors on the bottom 2 floors. Right as you get just past those lighter bottom floor buildings you will see a metal garage door still on the left side. Then just past that is a dark door on a red building with barred windows. Touchdown is on the rectangular little window in that door.  Position yourself so the large mirrored building is on your right and a parking lot is on your left. Just a short distance ahead is the first intersection. You're going to turn left there. After you turn, there will be a wall covered in poster advertisements on your right. 

Continue straight on this street. When you see the tall yellow building on your left, you're almost to the next intersection. When you get to the traffic light, turn left. Just a short distance after you turn, there will be a black fire hydrant with a silver cap on your right. It's next to a streetlight. Touchdown is sitting right on the very top of the hydrant.
 Go in the direction that has a white speed limit sign and a yellow crosswalk sign to your right. Go to the intersection ahead and stop in the middle of it. Turn to the right and you will see a green trash can with a black lid on the sidewalk to the right of you. Touchdown is at the top of the trash can. Face the intersection ahead with the bridge in front of you. Go straight through, under the bridge, and straight through multiple intersections to come. Eventually, pass by a playground on your left fenced in with chain link. After the playground, see multiple store fronts on your left. Stop just before the first one, a teal blue one with yellow letters. Facing it, notice the yellow symbols in the sign. Touchdown is sitting right in the middle of the first one on the left.  Turn so you'll be walking in the same direction as the traffic goes on this one-way street.  Move forward to the intersection right in front of you, and turn left.  On this block you'll pass under and underpass before you get to the end of the block.  At the intersection, turn left.  On your left you'll pass a brick building.  The next building is gray and has the windows covered with white paper.  Move so you're even with the center of the paper-covered-window building.  Turn toward this building and note that there are two sets of doors.  The bear is in the center of the set of doors on the right.   Follow traffic, with the white building with flags behind you on your right.  At the light, go right and at the next light, go right again. When you reach the next light, go right, but don't pass the crosswalk, but just face down the street, where you can see the green canvas entryway far off in the distance on the right.

Closer to you, nestled between two trees on the sidewalk on the right, is a grey square parking pole with a blue band near the top.

Touchdown sits on top of that pole. Turn to go with traffic, there is a bridge on the left, go to the 1st intersection and take a right, there will be scaffolding on the left and a park on your right. you are now facing traffic, go through the 1st light, there is a row of blue bikes on your right, continue straight.At the next light take a right. On your right there is a blue painted post in the shape of a candy cane, the bear is sitting on top Face like you are crossing the street.  There is a little road, you need to be on.  Once on this road go through the first intersection.  Then the navigation will force you left.  Do that, but then continue forward.  At the end of the road, turn right.  Then take the next right.  There is an American Flag to the left, head to it.  Pass the flag, and the building with the black overhang.  Look left, there is an orange cone that has fallen over.  The bear is on it Turn so you'll be walking in the same direction the cars are going on this one-way street.  Go until you come to an intersection, and turn right.  On the new street, go until you come to the first intersection, and turn right again.  After you've gone a few steps along the construction scaffolding to your right, look WAY up above the scaffolding and you'll see a big gray/white silo structure.  The bear is on the very top of the silo (on top of the narrow part at the very top). Turn to go with traffic flow down the road with the red awning on the right with the green awnings after it. Turn right at the first corner.

Go all the way down this long block to the first intersection you come to and turn right. When you turn, go down to the next corner. When you are just about on the crosswalk, look to your right and there is a round sign on the building with a mermaid on it. It's a logo for a popular company. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of this round sign. Align yourself against the flow of traffic in your lane, you should have 3 light green awnings on your left. Head straight through the first three left turn, and through the first intersection.

After the third left turn, you should stop close to the fourth. You should see a green garbage bin near the corner on your left. Touchdown is on the green bin. Go in the same direction that the parked cars are facings.  There will be a green bike lane and a median to your left.  
Go to the first intersection and turn right.  There will be a blue store on your right.
Go to the next intersection and turn right again.    There will be brown smooth walls on both sides of you.  
Go to the next intersection.  Stop immediately after you exit the intersection. You will see some graffiti on your right.  Turn slightly to your right to look at it.  In front of you there should now appear a black hydrant with a silver top.  Touchdown is sitting atop this hydrant. Turn yourself so that you're facing the direction of traffic. When turned correctly, the parked cars should be to your right and a red building to your left. Walk straight until you reach the next intersection. A fenced in park should be across the street. Turn right at this intersection.

Walk straight until you reach the next intersection. A red building with a big space in front of it should be to your left, and a orange building with red trim to your right. Turn right here.

Walk until you get to the intersection with two stop signs. Continue straight through this intersection.

Walk until right before the next intersection. On your left, you should see a gray structure with a long blue screen. Touchdown is placed at the bottom of this structure. 



 Position yourself so the playground is on your left. Go straight through the intersection that's just ahead of you. Right after you pass it, you'll see two orange traffic cones in the road next to a diamond-shaped sign that you can only see the back of. Touchdown is perched on the point of the cone closest to you.  Turn so you have the orange and white barriers to your left. Walk with the flow of traffic until you can see the intersection ahead.

Up ahead, you can see a green van parked on the left. In front of the van is a small white rectangle sign with red writing. Touchdown is on that sign. Stand so you are facing the intersection. Step into it and turn right. Continue to the next intersection and turn right. On your right corner as you turn is a red/yellow store sign. At the next intersection, turn right again.  When you get to the next intersection, stop and face left. On the corner is a short green store sign. Touchdown is in the middle of the sign. Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. There should now be a small construction area on your left.

2. When you start moving forward, you'll run into a three-way intersection, but just pass through it. When you reach the next intersection, take a left. You should be in the middle of a divided street.

3. When you reorient yourself, there should be a red corner storefront with a red awning to your right. At the next intersection (the other side of the divided street), take a left again.

4. When you reorient yourself, there should be four traffic barrels and a few orange crowd control barricades to your right. Your destination is close.

5. When you've just passed the barricades and are now directly to the left of the parked SUV right after it, stop. Right behind this SUV is a black fire hydrant with a silver top that's next to a red post. Touchdown is sitting on the very top of this hydrant.

Good luck! :) You should be standing in the middle of an intersection with a white sign with black lettering directly in front of you on a pole.Outdoor seating is on your left. Take a side step to the right and then move forward down this street still facing the same direction. Go through the intersection directly in front of you and turn right at the second one you get to. After you turn, you'll have a striped awning on a green building on your right. 

At the next intersection, turn right again. There's a big pile of trash on the sidewalk on your left that short of looks like someone moved out and moved everything to the curb. Go straight at the next traffic light and watch for an orange and white construction barrier to appear on your left. Before you get to the next intersection, line yourself up with the beginning of the red awning on your right (the business on the corner). Now, look right a little more, and there's a star shaped sign on a white door of the business beside it. Touchdown is placed in the middle of that star. 

 Turn so the scaffolding and orange metal fencing is to your right and walk into the intersection.  Go left (you'll have scaffolding to your right) and follow that street until you pass a section that has scaffolding also on the left.  

You'll see a brown stoop to your left, past the scaffolding on that side. Walk a little further past that, until you're the third to last building (counting from end is a red brick building, and a grey building with an arched door, and the one you should be facing on your left).  If you look up slightly, you'll see three window.

The touchdown is sitting on the window sill of the very middle window, in the very center. You'll know it's the right one, because as you face the building, the dangling red banner will be to the left of it.  position yourself so the scaffolding is on your right. Follow the traffic direction now. Soon you will see a store with blue store front and colorful writtings on the sign. Also a big painting of the store and the animal on the building. There will be an animal head on that sign too. The touchdown is on that animal head above the door.  Stand so that the park is on your right. Move forward toward the bridge. Continue straight for awhile, until you can look to your right ahead and below you and see a white and orange construction border. Touchdown is on the center corner of this border. Go WITH cars to light and go RIGHT.  Go to the SECOND light and go RIGHT. Pass orange construction barrels on your right and white double-grey striped bollards on your left. STOP at the last building before the scaffolding on your left, which will have two vertical red signs with white letters. ROTATE RIGHT.  You will see three tall square silver kiosks, but one is thinner than the other two, with a black top.

FIND Touchdown atop the thin kiosk with the black top. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  Go along the road straight keeping the barriers on your left.  You'll pass some silver industrial ducting.  Head into the intersection and turn left.  You should see a large billboard up and to the right and a yellow building off in the distance to the left.

At the first intersection, turn left.  You'll see a row of bike parking, but only a few bikes.  Go past these.  Go past the pink forklift.

Stop just past the end of the orange and white barriers.

To your left is a fence with a lighter silver door and a sign on it.  Touchdown is on that brownish sign. Turn to go with the direction of traffic. Start going straight and turn left at the intersection at the end of this street.  Go straight again and turn left again at the next intersection. Go straight all the way down this road and you'll come at another intersection. Go straight just before the other street at the opposite side of the intersection and stop. Look to the corner just slightly to your right and there will be a trashcan. The bear is on top the trashcan. Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Go forward to the next intersection, and turn left. At the next intersection, go left again. You will come to a red brick building on your left. It has black doors with windows above them. Touchdown is in the window of the first door. Turn to face with traffic, then go forward until you can't anymore. Now go very slightly to the right, and you should see a trash can next to a streetlight. Touchdown is in the trash can. Follow traffic around the curve, with the building with blue doors and windows to your left.  When you get to the light, go right. To your left will be trees and scaffolding. Turn right at the next light, into oncoming traffic. At the next light, enter the intersection and go right, so you're on the crosswalk with the island to your left.  Really indulge yourself and embrace the feeling of deja vu.  Touchdown is atop the red hydrant to your left. Turn so that the green fence is on your left.  Go into the intersection and stop in the middle.  There is a wooden tool box on your left.  The bear is in the middle. Orient yourself so the parking garage entrance with the bright blue signage and white lettering is on your left side, and a green plywood awning held by scaffolding on your right.  Walk forward to the intersection and turn left.  Again, walk to the next intersection and turn left.  Walk to the next intersection. There are actually two intersections here right next to each other.  Go straight through the first and turn left at the second.  On your left is the median between the directions of traffic, they are large long flower pots that have trees growing out of them.  Stop when you're even with the beginning of the flower pot.  To your left, right at the beginning of the row of trees in the median is a black sign with white markings.  Touchdown is in the middle of that sign.   turn to move with traffic down a one way street, the traffic cones are on your right, go to the intersection and take a left, there will be a storefront trimmed in red and yellow on the left. Continue to the next intersection and take a left, there will be a restaurant with outdoor seating and red awning on your left, follow this street, you will pass a row of blue bikes on the left, further ahead on the left you will see a brightly red painted restaurant, it is small, only on the bottom floor and has a green umbrella . Just after that is a row of trash cans, the bear is on the last can Hello there!

1. Make sure that you're going with the flow of traffic. There should be a white delivery truck to your right. Take a right at the intersection.

2. When you reorient yourself, you should see a business with a red, orange, and white logo. On your way to the next intersection, there should be a line of blue bikes on your right.

3. Take another right when you reach the next intersection. When you reorient yourself, there should be a business with a lot of produce and flowers on your right.

4. Once again, take a right at the next intersection. There should be a little bit of scaffolding to your left when you reorient yourself. Your destination is very close.

5. Keep an eye on the black fire hydrant on your right. Once you've passed it and are in line with the back of the parked black car near it, stop. Touchdown is sitting on top of the hydrant.

Good luck! :) Turn so the couches in the window are on your right side. Go one block then turn left. Go a block that is a little longer and then turn left again. Go one block again then another left turn. On your left corner the storefront is black then there is a black awning after that. Then there is an ornate reddish doorway. Stop before you get to that doorway.  Look to your right and there will be a fire hydrant that you are just past. Touchdown is on top of that hydrant.  Get turned so the empty blue box where a sign should be is on your right side. Go straight through the first intersection. At the next intersection make a right turn. There is a fenced in park type of area with some basketball courts on the left. Go straight and at the first intersection keep going straight. The building on the right kind of curves and has a multi colored fence. As you go down the street and the building keeps curving you'll see a double set of blue doors. Go a little further. Look on the left and as soon as the red brick stops and a stone building starts come to a stop. If you turn and face directly left you are almost in front of the first window on the stone building that has metal over it that has x's in it. Touchdown is on the seat of the bike that is locked to the pole that is right there.  Orient yourself so that there is a dumpster on your left and a store with a green and yellow sign above it on your right.  Move forward to the first intersection.  Turn right.  You will see a fenced off construction area on your left.  Proceed forward to the first intersection.  Turn right.  There will be a long row of blue bikes on your left.  Proceed down this street, passing all the blue bikes, as well as a green awning on the right.  After the green awning, you will see a red and white sign on the right.  Pass this a well.  Also pass the light blue and orange signs  that are after the red and white sign.  Stop after you pass these two signs.  Turn to your right.  In the window to your right, you will see a cartoon drawing of a dog nose and mouth.  Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the nose of this cartoon.   Turn so you are facing the intersection. There are payphones on your left. Go straight through the intersection. Pass a school on the left, then go through an intersection. There are bike racks and a blue bike on the left. Go through the next intersection, and keep going straight. Pass a red building with a blue awning on the left, followed by a building with a white parking lot and black iron fence. After that there is a big pile of garbage bags on the sidewalk. After that is a big tree in next to the sidewalk with some green benches, Touchdown is sitting on the ground at the base of the tree. Turn so that the phone booth is on your left and you are heading into oncoming traffic. Move forward until you reach the intersection, then turn left. Turn left at the next intersection as well. Pass the scaffolding on the left. Stop just after you have passed the US Mail truck on the left. To your left you will see a square white sign with blue text. The sign is posted on the pole just in front of the brown delivery truck. It's a bit high, so you may need to look up. Touchdown is in the center of that sign. Orient yourself so that you are moving with the flow of traffic. Go straight to the next intersection and turn right. Go to the next intersection and turn right again. Continue until the street veers left. On your left is a purple store building, with a small purple fence. Touchdown is in the center of the glass door. Go into the nearest intersection. Look for the hot dog cart on the corner and keep it to your left as you go straight in this direction. Go straight at the next intersection.  Go left at the next intersection, Green scaffolding will be on your right. Turn left at the next intersection and stop directly next the green trash can on the right. Touchdown is sitting in the opening of the trash can. Turn so you're facing the big intersection that's right near you.  It's a T-intersection.  Move forward to the intersection, and turn right.  Just after you turn, you're going to merge slightly to the left to enter the main road and leave the little side road with the parked cars.  Once you've merged, your road curves to the right gently.  Keep going forward and pass under the overpass.  You'll have two big highway signs up ahead over the road.  Stop before you pass under the signs, but not when they're almost over your head (a bit before that).  Look at the posts the signs are attached to on the right side of the road.  Just over the concrete road barrier there's a green box affixed to the pole (same color green as the signs).  The bear is on top of the green box.  Turn around so that you are going against the flow of traffic.At the first traffic light turn right. Go to the second traffic light and make another right.As you near the next light you will see on your left  a sign on the sidewalk with an eye on it go until you are next to that sign. Turn so that you are looking at the store with that eye sign and Touchdown is sitting on the top step directly in the center. Facing the intersection, make a right turn. About halfway down the block you will see stores with blue awnings in the right. There is a fire hydrant in front of them. Touchdown is sitting in the street right in front of the hydrant. Hello. Please orient yourself facing the flow of traffic in the direction of the parked cars. There will be a white building to your right side. You will see dark pink and lighter pink buildings to your left side. 

Walk forward to the first intersection ahead. Turn right.

You will see buildings to your right side with colorful signs above in orange, yellow, and black. There will be a small triangle median to your left side with a tree and flowers inside a small black fence. 

Walk forward to the next intersection. Turn right again.

You will see a red brick building with black and white awning to your left side. There will be a dark red awning on a red brick building to your right side with lots of flowers for sale on the sidewalk outside. 

Walk forward down this long path. You will pass some orange and white construction barriers on your right side. Up ahead to your left side, you will see a large blue object. This will be a dumpster with a blue tarp draped all around it.

Please stop in between the tree and the fire hydrant before you reach the blue tarp dumpster. You will be standing before you reach the green wall near the blue dumpster. There will be two light blue doors with windows and a white building.

Just before the blue dumpster, there is a rusted gray fire hydrant on your left side. Touchdown will be on top of the fire hydrant. Good luck! Turn so you are facing in the same direction as traffic.
Move forward to the first intersection and turn right
Go straight ahead and at the traffic light, turn right again
You will see see two blue awnings jutting onto the sidewalk, pass them on your left
Ahead and to the right see the white buildings with multiple signs on the building and sidewalk in front of it. Stop in front of this building and turn to the right to face it. You will be looking at a small grey door ,Touchdown is at the base of the door. Get situated so the short short silver poles are on your left side. Go to the next intersection and make a left turn. After you turn the silver poles will still be on your left side and some red and yellow umbrellas are on the right. Go straight down this long block. Make a left turn at the intersection. There are a couple pictures of a sun on the building to the right. Go almost to the next intersection.  You will pass a black fire hydrant that is on the right and then stop before you get to a red one. You should be next to a concrete barrier that has blue and white stripes on it to your right. Touchdown is on the red hydrant. Hello, please orient yourself facing the two Stop signs. Take 3 steps forward into the intersection. Turn Right. Follow the flow of traffic to the next intersection. Turn Right. There should be a big white truck on your right. Continue Straight down this road about 10 steps until you hit an intersection. Go Straight through the intersection for about 5 more steps forward. You will see two Stop Signs and an intersection as you approach. Take 1 final step forward into the intersection. Look directly to your far left. You will see bags of trash next to a dark trash can with a white bag inside it. The trash can is made of dark metal bars. You will find Touchdown Bear by clicking at the top middle part of the trashcan where you see the white bag. Good luck! Rotate so that  scaffolding and orange and white construction barriers are to your right and move ahead with traffic to the traffic light shortly ahead and Turn Right.
Travel  to the next traffic light down this short block leaving the construction barriers to the right. At the traffic light Turn Right again. There is now construction to your right again.
Travel all the way down this fairly long block to the traffic light and Turn Right and Stop. Directly to your left is a green trash can, Touchdown is sitting on top of it Going with the flow of traffic, proceed to the first intersection and turn right. Take that road to the next intersection and turn right again. Follow the street all the way to the next corner.  There will be a restaurant on the right hand side with yellow awnings.  Tuchdown is sitting on the table with the group of women. Orient yourself so that the black awning is to your right. Go straight and take a sharp right turn at the intersection. Go straight until you see a small enclosed green box with windows in it to the right. Touchdown is in front of that green box. You want to start by facing a building with a white sign with red blue and more red words on it. If you're facing the correct direction this will be on your right in front of you. In front of you on your left will be all white building with blue and white signs in the windows. Head straight down the street between the two buildings. Cross through the first intersection and make a right when you get to the second intersection. Very quickly after turning right you will see a building that is made of brick and has two red dollars touchdown is sitting in front of the open door. Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Go forward to the intersection, and turn left. Go to the next intersection and take another left. Go forward, past a construction section on your left. Just near the end of the construction section, face right and there is a building with a glass door with gold frames. Touchdown is on the top of the gold arch above the door. turn to follow traffic down the street with the green wall to the right, with orange and white blocks. At the 1st light take a right, the building to your left is blue, and has a poster of a woman with a flower in her hair, At the next intersection, make a right, there will be chain link fencing on your left and green walls to the right, pass through the next intersection, to the right is wrought iron fencing with trees and an empty lot, in front of the fencing is a light post with two trash cans , the bear is on the can with the blue sticker on the lid Turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the parked cars on your street. A red awning with a large, bright yellow, curvy letter should be on your right.  

Walk straight down this street.  When you see a temporary orange sign in the street, try to step straight forward, rather than stepping slightly to the right.  That orange diamond sign should still be in front of you after you take this step.  If not, please go back and try again, so that you can stay on the main road.  

 When you are properly situated, keep walking forward, and you will pass between two rows of orange barrels.  Just keep going straight, and go straight through the first intersection (with crosswalks) that you come to.  

After the intersection, if you pass an orange trailer with a large electronic sign on your right, you are still on the right track. 

Keep moving forward, and keep the median on your left.  There is a long line of chain link fences and orange and white construction barriers on the right-hand side of your street.  Keep walking until you have passed the very end, where you should also see a beige pickup truck parked on the right.  

Walk straight forward a bit more, ignoring any chances to turn to the left, and stop just before you pass through the intersection with crosswalks.  

On the sidewalk to your right, you should see a green lamppost, and some newspaper boxes.  Touchdown is on top of the red newspaper box Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Turn right at the next intersection.
You should see a green awning on your right below a horizontally striped sign.
Turn right at the next intersection.
You should see scaffolding on your left.
Head down passing a dumpster on the left until you are almost at the area that has wooden barriers with yellow tape around it.
On your right is a neon coat hanger shaped sign that is slightly obscured.  If the tree branch isn't obscuring it, you've gone too far.  Touchdown is on that sign. Go with traffic down the one way street. Road barriers will be on your left.
Turn left at the first intersection. Go into the next intersection and turn left and turn left again while in the intersection to complete a U turn and come back down the street that you were just on. Go straight at the intersection where you started. Look right and stop next to a building with a red awing with white and yellow letters on it. Look for the ATM that has spray paint all over it at this buidling. ATM should be to your right and a little in front of you. Touchdown is on the screen of the ATM. Turn so you are going with traffic. Stay in the same lane. There will be merging traffic on each side of you. You will come to a traffic light. Go straight. You will then go under an overpass. Keep going straight. At the next intersection take a right. On the left side of this street you will see a green construction dumpster on the left side of the street. Look for the 2 yellow square stickers on the left end. Touchdown is on the middle of the sticker on the right.  With the red awning to the left, go straight. Take a right at the intersection. Go past the bust stop and then stop at the next intersection. There is another bus stop to your right. Touchdown is sitting on the bench. Turn so you are going with traffic. There will be some potted plants on the right of you. Go straight at the intersection ahead. At the next light take a right. There will be orange and white barriers on the right side of the street here. Go straight with traffic passing through the next intersection. There will be a parking lot on the right. There will be a yellow street sign on the right side of the street. Touchdown is in the middle point of this sign.  Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the brown delivery vehicle on your left. Continue forward to the next intersection and go straight.  on your left should be a food cart and on your right you will see some scaffolding with a green awning. Continue moving forward to the next intersection and take a right. You should see some white tents on your left and more scaffolding on your right with a green awning. Continue moving forward to the next intersection and take a right. You should see an organic coffee shop on your left and a small clothing stand on your right. Continue moving forward and look for the small delivery bay on your left once you have passed the coffee shop. Stop and turn left so you are facing the delivery bay.  touchdown is sitting in the middle of the delivery bay where it touches the ground. You are on a one way road, go with the flow of traffic. At the next intersection you will make a left, you have to go slightly to the right then slightly back and to the left. If you are in the right spot you will have a light colored building on the left with red awnings and to the right will be a glass store front with white signage. Continue straight to the next intersection and make a left. The building to your right will be grey with white signage. Go straight through the next three way intersection. You will then come to another three way intersection, stop on the crosswalk just before entering this intersection. To your left will be a black store front with red signage and to your right will be a purple and white flag. Looking ahead to the corner on the right is a red pole next to the traffic signal pole. Touchdown is on top of the red pole.  Put the graffiti wall on your right. Move forward. Take the first right you come to. Move forward through the next intersection. At the second intersection, take another right. Move through the traffic. You'll see a large Parking sign ahead. Touchdown is sitting at the base of a sign advertising the price to park. Go in the same direction as traffic.  There will be scaffolding on your right.  Move forward to the first intersection.  Turn right.  There will now be scaffolding on your left.  GO to the next intersection. Turn right.  There will be low, green and white buildings to your left.  Go past these buildings.  You will then see a park on your left.  Pass this park.  Then on your right will be some scaffolding and a yellow diamond-shaped sign with black lettering.  Stop after you pass this sign.  Turn 90 degrees to your right in order to see the sign again.  Touchdown is sitting on the top point of the sign.     Orient yourself so that a row of blue bikes is on your right.  Move forward to the first intersection that you encounter.  Turn left at that intersection; you will notice a traffic light your right to help you know that you are headed the right way.  Move forward to the next intersection and stop when you get to the first crosswalk.  Look to your right.  You will see a store that has an angled door with a blue pillar in front of the door.  Touchdown is in the middle of that pillar where the decorated bottom part of the pillar meets the smooth part of the pillar. Go down the road where the building with the red awnings is on your right. Turn right at the intersection. Stop just before you pass the painted bicycle on the road. Touchdown is on the head of the painted biker on the road. follow the direction of traffic. Turn left at the first intersection. Go with traffic, pass the first 2 intersections. When you almost reach the third intersection, you will see a big glass/metal building on your right, with a grey bus in front of it. Look at your left, second floor height there will be a billboard ad for a camera. There is a big white number on the right side of the ad next to the camera.The touchdown is in the middle of that number.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and there will be a fenced in yard on the right.  You may need to move slightly to get on the correct street.  When you do, head forward and you will see a playground on you right, keep going through the intersection. Hang a left at the next intersection past the park and you will see a green painted lane on your left.  Go forward past the light pole with the banner and you should see a small pole with a red sign on it, which is where Touchdown is hiding. Turn so that the pile of garbage bags is to your left and the grassy area is to your right. Walk forward through the first intersection to the next one and turn right. You should see an orange and white building on your right and a white building on your left. Go down this street until you reach an angled intersection. Turn right at this intersection around the curve. You should see purple flags to your right now. Go down the street until you pass the flags. Turn right and face the wall the flags are on. There is a light above the stars in the middle of the doorway. Touchdown is on that light. Orient yourself so the restaurant hidden behind all the potted trees is on your right.  Walk down the block to the next intersection and turn right.  Walk up to the intersection.  Go straight past the tiny road on your right and turn right onto the large, multi lane road.  Travel up this road until you are in the first major intersection where you can turn and stop.  Rotate to your right and look at the tan brick building.  On the right hand side of that building is a gold entry way that has a bright green ball above it.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the green ball. Go straight in the direction of traffic. Take the right exit and then another right with the yellow drums to your left. Go right until you see a well-painted intersection. Before you reach it there are some bushes to the left. There is s spacing in them which is paved with cobblestone. Touchdown is sitting in the gap. Turn with the flow of cars and head to the nearest intersection.  Take a right.  Continue and take the next right.  Go down this narrow road and take your first right.  There will be rental bikes on your left.  Stop when you are standing in from of them.  The bear is sitting on the seat of the 1st bike. Turn around and align yourself to the close intersection, so that the pink ad on the trailer is to your left. Head up to the intersection and make a left.

There should now be a blue food truck on your right. Head down to the next intersection and make another left.

Approach the next intersection but stop before the table of wares on your right side. You should see a sign with a red top, white middle, and blue bottom. Touchdown is in the middle of the white part of the sign. Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Enter the intersection, turn left.  Continue down this road.  Go through the intersection.  Pass the 2nd shamrock on your left and stop.  Look slightly left.  There is an orange construction barrel on the sidewalk.  The bear is on top.   Turn so the construction scaffolding is on your right and the building with the fancy overhang is on your left.  Go forward until you've passed all the flags.  Immediately after the last flag on the right is construction scaffolding.  Note that on the first patch of scaffolding the green wall at the top is lower than the rest of the scaffolding beyond that.  Stop when you're even with this lower part of the scaffolding.  Under this area of lower scaffolding is a parking pay kiosk that looks like a square pole with a blue stripe around the top.  The bear is on top of this kiosk. Turn so the long blue section of a building is to your left and the orange section on a building is on your right. When you reach the intersection, turn right. At the next intersection turn right again. After you turn there will be many boxes outside a building to the left of you. Go straight until the next intersection. Turn right again. The building to your left has a short iron work fence. Go straight but stop before you get to the next intersection. If you look to your right there is a very minty green storefront. Touchdown is on the ground in the doorway of the green store. Go with the flow of traffic to the first intersection and take a right turn.  There will be a parking lot to your right. At the next intersection, take a right. You'll see a bunch of globe lights through the windows to your right. At the next intersection take a right. Touchdown will be on top of the fire hydrant on your right in front of the building with blue awnings. Align yourself so that the two trash cans with white bags in them, and the two white bags on the ground, as well as the fire hydrant are on your right. Head up tot he intersection to make a right. Go straight through the first right turn, straight once at the next intersection.. On your left, you should see a white sign with two different languages written on it. To your right is a silver tipped fire hydrant underneath a yellow awning. Touchdown is on the tip of the hydrant. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and some orange barriers up ahead on the right.  Move forward until you get to the intersection and turn left.  Up on the right you should see green and white umbrellas,move forward and past them.  Go straight through the next intersection.  Keep going and you should see a large white store sign with red text on it.  Just before that is a dark pole with a blue band on the left.  Touchdown is on this blue band.
 Orient yourself so that scaffolding is on your left. Move ahead to the intersection and turn left. Now you should a black store awning on your left, and a row of blue awnings on your right. Move ahead to the next intersection and go left again. Soon on your right you'll pass an orange awning and blue awning. Then there is a large pile of garbage on your right. Stop by the garbage.

Ahead of you on the right is a curved black awning. Touchdown is on the end of the awning. Face the intersection you are so close to and go straight through it. Go up to the next intersection and make a right turn. You will see tables on the sidewalk on your left side and right side. Go straight to the next intersection and make a right turn again. On your left will be green awnings and some smaller red ones. Go straight to the end of the block and make another right turn. On your left is yellow and red overhang and on the right are red awnings. You'll see a long striped awning on the left. When you get next to the far end of the first long striped awning come to a stop. There should be a solid light brown awning after it then it keeps alternating striped and solid. There is a rolling plastic trashcan next to a pole on the left side. Touchdown is on top of that.  Go with traffic to the light and go right. Go right again at the next light. There'll be scaffolding to your right and a park behind a black fence to your left. Stop when you get to the k-walls on your right. Look ahead to your left, and you'll see two white round planters, one with a bush. Touchdown sits atop the bush in it. Turn so you going with traffic. Head down this street to the traffic light. At the light go right. Go one block. Take a right. Go straight down this street with traffic. Keep your eye out for a brick walk up with a red door. Touchdown is sitting in front of the entry light to this red door.  Go with traffic and left, passing the building with arches on the left corner and the orange umbrellas to your right, and more umbrellas and vendors carts on the left.  Out of the confusing area, go to the end of the block and left at the light there.

Stand on the crosswalk just before entering the middle of the next intersection. To your left on the corner is a shop with long vertical green banners in the window. Straight ahead is a traffic light, with a square white sign with black letters. It also has a downward pointing black arrow.

Touchdown is at the tip of the arrow. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  Head forward towards the bridge.  When you get close to the bridge, you will notice some black nets hanging from the side of the a building above a blueish scaffolding sign.

Touchdown has hiding in the black rightmost net above that scaffolding sign. Go with the flow of traffic to the first intersection and turn left. Continue down this street with the traffic flow, past some construction scaffolding on the left, onward past a park with a kids playground on the right, continue forward. As you get to the intersection, there is a yellow square box on a corner in front of a building framed in green. Touchdown is on top of that yellow box. From your starting point, please turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  The storefront with the red awnings should be on your right.  

Walk forward into the intersection and take a left.  A green door with red neon letters should be on the right side of a narrow street, and on the left side, a black poster in a window with green and white letters.  Walk down this narrow street, and just keep going until you come to an intersection.  

Take a left at this intersection.  You should see a median with some trees in concrete planters.  On your right, on the opposite side of this median, will be some scaffolding with a red canopy.  Walk down this road, and you should be going against the flow of traffic.

When you come to the intersection, stop and turn to your right.  You should see a banner on a fence on the left side of a narrow street (where you are facing oncoming traffic) and some scaffolding with a red canopy on the left side.  Take a couple of steps onto this street, but stop before you walk onto the crosswalk. 

Just ahead of you, on your left, is a black fire hydrant with a silver cap.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the silver tip of this hydrant.  You should still be standing in the road intersection as you try to find him. Turn and enter the intersection.  Not turn right.  Take the second right.  There is a bike shop on the corner.  Pass the building with the green stairs.  At the very end of this building on the left, there is a metal (Maybe bronze) square near a window.  The bear is in the middle.   Position yourself so the pumpkins are directly on your left and move with the flow of traffic. A few steps ahead is a construction barrier on your right. The street will end shortly. You'll turn left when it does. 

Go to the next intersection and proceed straight as if you're going through, but stop before you reach the intersection. There's a wire trash can on your left on the corner. Touchdown is right on top of the trash can.  Position yourself so you are facing the same way with traffic. There is a red truck in front of you to your left and a white truck in front of you to the right. Go to the next intersection on this road. You should see a bank with red banner and blue letters name to your right. Turn right here at this intersection. Once you made the turn, go straight till you reach the next intersection. You should see a green painted RV with candies and plant on it to your right. And you should see a yellow delivery truck with 3 red letters on the back ahead of you to your right. Turn right at this intersection so you are on the same road as the yellow delivery truck. Head towards the scaffolding ahead of you. You will soon see a long truck with building materials on it. Go till you can see the head of the truck. Then next to the truck on the walkway there is a yellow store sign with black letters and a street number. The touchdown is in the middle of the street number.  Position yourself with the flow of traffic. A deli will be on your left.
Proceed to the next intersection and turn left.
Go down this street. You will pass some tall brick buildings and a construction zone.
Keep travelling until you approach the next intersection. 
Look upwards and you will see three people on a sign wearing baseball hats.
The touchdown in the logo on the man in the middle's hat. 
 If you're not already, orient yourself so that you are going with the flow of traffic on the right side. You may need to scoot over one notch to the right. Now, go forward on this road. On your left you will see a large blue building with many garage looking doors. Go through this first traffic light and keep going straight. You will come up to a second traffic light, continue going straight. On your right you will see a large red construction structure. Now you will be coming to another traffic light, continue to go straight. You will see some green fencing on your right. Keeping going forward. You will come up to another traffic light. Before the light on your right you should see more construction and a blue section of a sidewalk barrier. On the sidewalk in front of the white sidewalk barrier you will see a fire Hydrant. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant.  follow the flow of traffic and turn at the first light.Go past the basketball courts and playground on your right.Make a left turn at the first light after the playground.touchdown is on the ground on your left side under the third golden arch of a restaurant. Follow traffic to the light and go right. Go right again at the next light, passing scaffolding on your right and the park on the left, and then an all white brick building on your right.

Stop just before the double grey door on the left and the Jersey walls on your right, and face left.  There is a parking meter with a blue band. Touchdown's atop it. Turn so you are moving with the flow of traffic, go to the 1st intersection and take a right, this will be a one way street flowing with traffic. There is a sign on the light post to your left in a bright orange color, follow this street to just before the next intersection, on the road there will be a painting of a man on a bike with 2 arrows above it, the bear is on this painting Align yourself with the scaffolding is on your left, and head up this road. Head straight through the first intersection, to make a right at the second. Head to just before the right turn ahead and you should see a single man on a pedestrian crossing sign. Below it is a red sign with an arrow. Touchdown is in the middle of the red sign. Go down the road that will put the white and blue building with the blue awning to your right and the brick building with the black awning to your left. At the next intersection make a right, the buildings on the left of you will have a lot of graffiti and there will be bright orange store front on the right. Make another right at the next intersection, there will be a vine covered fence on your right and a building with blue awnings on your left. Make a right at the next intersection. There will be a light tan building with darker brown horizontal strips on the right. Stop just before the stripes on that building end, there will be a red and white street sign on the right next to street lamp. Touchdown will be on top of the red and white street sign. Orient yourself so that you are going down a one-way road with the flow of traffic. There should be several white vans parked on this street. Go forward until you reach an intersection. There should be a trashcan to the left across the road. The touchdown is at the base of the can. Move down the street with the construction orange striped road dividers on the left. At the intersection, go right and the orange cones will be on the left as you move forward. Turn right and go in the tunnel. Touchdown is on top of an orange/white barrel. Go in the same direction as traffic, and turn right at the next 2 intersections. The corner storefront to your left will be green with white letters on a brick building. Go ahead, coming upon a green construction overhang on your left, followed by two smaller ones. Pass all of them and stop. Turning toward them, you will be in front of a gray/blue double door with a plant in front of it. Touchdown is on the top of that green potted plant. Orient yourself so a green bike lane is on your right. Turn right at the light and barely exit the intersection. On your left should be an empty red bench. Touchdown sits in the center seat. You're going to want to go with the flow of the traffic. There will be a street to the left of you but continue forward. At the intersection take a left. You should see a white card and white van. Beige buildings on left and right. Go down to the intersection and take a left. You should see a truck in front of you with black and red lettering and then a brown delivery truck on the right. Go down to the intersection and when you get to the crosswalk turn right. You should see the lit up hand signal. Your touchdown is in the middle.  Orient yourself to follow the flow of traffic and keep right. You will see a welcome sign for the city on your right. The touchdown is on the right emblem at the top right corner of the sign.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic with the construction material and blue trailer on your left.
Head forward to the next intersection and turn right.  You will see a long marquee on the right that is black, red and green striped.
Turn right at the next intersection where a purplish orange striped awning is.
Head down this road.  Once you pass the green awning jutting out from the left building, you will see a black garage door on the left.  In front of that garage door is a yellow post that has Touchdown hiding at the top of. Orient yourself so you are facing towards the nearest intersection, and the building with all the columns is across the street on your right side.  Enter the intersection and turn right.  Begin walking down this road, you'll be on it for awhile.  Go straight through the first three intersections.  Approach the fourth intersection and stop before you cross over the crosswalk.  Look to your left, there should be a little median separating a bike lane from the traffic.  It is mostly concrete with a square of green plants planted.  There are two white poles with silver reflecting tape on the top.  Touchdown is stuck on the white pole closest to you.  Move with the flow of traffic, leaving the green dumpster behind you on the right. As soon as you reach the intersection, turn left. You should be on the left side of the road, moving against traffic. You need to move ahead straight through three (3-way) intersections. At the 4th, move to turn right and stop there. On your left ahead of you is a red post with a white tip. Touchdown is on top of the red post. Position yourself with the flow of the traffic. The traffic that isn't congested. You should see the blue newspaper machine to your right. Follow this road. Go through the next three intersections. Through the first one, you will see scaffholding on the right with a USPS truck. As you go past the next one, you will see a bus in the bus lane, and a fios truck in there too. As you go through the next intersection, you are going to pass a pizza place. You're going to go through the last one, but not by much. You will see what appears to be a furniture store. Your touchdown is the P on the parking meter.  Turn so you are facing away from the intersection. There sound be a red and a green newspaper stand on your left. Walk down the street. 

The first intersection is 3 way - turn right. Walk down to the end of the block. You will pass another 3 way intersection, but keep going straight until you hit a 4 way intersection.

Turn right at the 4 way intersection. There will be construction scaffolding to your left. Walk straight to the next intersection. 

Once you are in the middle of this intersection, look on the right corner in front of you. There is a business with a neon sign. Touchdown is at the base of the stop light pole out front. Align yourself so that the flow of traffic closest is the same way you're going. Take this street until you run in to the first possible left, and make a right here. You will pass 2 turns which you will ignore, and a step after the 2nd chance to turn, to your left you should see a woman crossing the median on the street with a blue bag and a green bag with wheels. Touchdown is on the blue bag. Follow the flow of traffic and go straight through the first intersection, turning right at the second. Once you hit the next intersection turn right again. Go straight through the first intersection and stop at the second. The touchdown is on the pink 'T' on the sign across the street.  GO LEFT, following traffic down a street where you see construction barrels ahead on the right as well as a red brick store with a yellow sign band on the corner.

GO LEFT at the light.  You'll pass a mostly white building on the left corner.

GO LEFT at the light.  You'll pass a bike rack with blue bikes on your right.

GO LEFT at the light.  The left corner shop has white glyphs on a green sign band above green awning and tall black fencing should be on your right.

STOP when you're even with the tall center metal post of the rusty chain-link fence on your left and ROTATE to face it.

FIND Touchdown impaled atop the post.



 Turn the direction that the lady wearing the orange shirt is walking, and move that way 1 step.  Then turn and follow the taxi with 908 on the back.  Follow that taxi to the next intersection and turn right.  (Where you turn you should see someone walking their dog in the crosswalk, but you have to look around to see it).  Once on the new road continue forward.  You are following two cars that are behind a large truck.  Continue util you find the intersection with hand pained art on the walls.  One picture has pink bears.  Turn right (Towards the puddle). Continue to the next intersection.  Turn right (With the flow of cars).  Head forward to just before the next intersection. You will find a motorcycle parked on the side of the road.  The bear is sitting on it. Turn, so that the staircase is on your right. Go forward, toward the red awning and stop at the next intersection. Make a left, you will now have a green store awning to your right. Go down the block and stop before you reach the second traffic light. Touchdown is on the air conditioner, above the red awning with the yellow letters, on your right. Turn and follow the flow of traffic.  Take your first left.  Then take the next left, followed by the next left.  Stop next to the orange parked car.  Behind it is a motorcycle.  The beat is on the right headlight of the bike.   Align yourself so that the stone building with blue signs are on your right, and head with the flow of traffic to the intersection, and make a right here.

You're going to go most of the length of the street. You'll pass 2 olive post boxes and a black awning on your right most of the way down, you're almost there.

On your right you'll hit another stone building with two potted plants in front of it when the intersection is in view. Touchdown is in the right potted plant, at the base of the bush/tree Turn to face the intersection you are upon. There is a planter on the lamppost on the corner ahead on your right. Enter the intersection and go right. You are going the right way down a one way street.  Walk ahead to the next intersection, which will have an orange/red building on the right corner. Go right, but stop immediately after turning the corner. Turn to face the orange/red building. On the lamp post in front of you, you will see a small blue sign toward the top. Touchdown is sitting right in the middle of that sign.  Align yourself with the blue rental bikes on your left and make a right at the intersection in front of you. Continue past the red awning on your right and make your last right at the first intersection. Move forward, passing the green awnings on your right, the first scaffolding and stopping in front of the black store front on your right. In front of that store front, there will be a brown L-shaped bench to the left of the door. Touchdown will be on the black cylinder table in front of that bench. Go with the flow of traffic.  Turn right at the intersection.  There will be scaffolding on both sides of the street. Go to the next intersection and turn right.  There will now be orange barricades to your left.  Go to the next intersection and turn right again.  Go to the next intersection, stopping after you cross the first crosswalk.  Turn 90 degrees to your left.  There is a green street sign hanging off the light pole.  TOuchdown is sitting on top of this green street sign, on the right side. Orient yourself so the construction site with an orange fence is on your left.  Go forward to the intersection and turn left.  Once again, go to the next intersection and turn left.  Walk forward and go straight through the first three way intersection.  Approach the next three way intersection, you'll see it but you won't be able to turn, and look across the intersection on the right side.  Right next to the street light pole is a black fire hydrant with a silver top that has two short metal poles protecting it.  Touchdown is on top of the hydrant on the silver part.   Orient yourself so a cart of packages and bus stop are on your right. Proceed forward and make a right at the stoplight. Stop just before the next intersection. A green box in on the light pole to your right and Touchdown is on top of it. Position yourself so the store with all glass in the front is on your right and the stairs going down to the subway are on your left. Go all the way down to the first traffic light and turn right. There will now be a red building on your right and a green building on your left.  Travel a short bit until you're almost to the next intersection. Three buildings before the crosswalk, you'll see a set of double wooden doors at the top of some steps on your right. Touchdown is on the lantern on the walk next to the left door.  Turn so you are going with traffic, on your right is a ramp leading to a door. go straight to the 1st intersection. Take a right at the intersection, on your left is a building with scaffolding and to your right a phone booth, continue straight to the next intersection, to your right is a green stairway leading underground. There is a poster on the stairs, the bear is in the middle of the poster Position yourself so the green storefront is up ahead on your left, and you're moving with the flow of traffic. Take this street to the first traffic light and turn left. After you turn, there will be red scaffolding on your right. 

Go to the next intersection, which is just ahead, and turn left again. Now, there's a business with large windows and small green signs on your left. Go straight. You'll pass a parking lot on your left and then green scaffolding on your right. Slow down when you get to the scaffolding that comes next on your left. At the end of that scaffolding on your left is a sign on a thin green pole. It is red on top and white in the middle, and it has a thin strip of blue at the bottom. Touchdown is waiting for you on the blue portion of the sign.  Align yourself with the flow of traffic. Continue down this road, past two intersections, and take a right on the third. Halfway down this road, you should see a black van with a yellow license plate.Take one step further and you can see some signs for a cafe. Touchdown is in the A of the left sign on the cafe. Go with the flow of traffic to the first intersection and turn left.  At the next intersection turn left.  You'll see black flags ahead on both sides.  Go straight to the next intersection and turn left again. Go straight all the way down until you see orange and white barriers on the right. When this barrier ends, there's a very tall sculpture behind it next to a building.  Touchdown is at the bottom center front of the statue. Face yourself so you are immediately approaching an intersection.  Head toward the intersection then turn left.  Head down the street you will see a low orange fence on your right as you approach the next intersection.  Turn left at intersection.  You will see a phone booth on your right as you start down the street. Continue straight you will come to a tree on your left that is painted with a blue and white covering.  Just past this tree is a light pole.  Touchdown is sitting at the base of the pole on your left. With your back to the intersection, go in the same direction as traffic. Go straight down this whole road to the 4 way intersection ahead. Go right. Stop just before a store window on your right with a yellow person kicking painted on it. Touchdown is sitting on top of the person's head.  Align yourself with the scaffolding on your right, and take the immediate right up that street with the scaffolding.

Ignore the one right turn, and head all the way up to the intersection, making a right. Follow this to the next intersection, and go straight through, then stop. On your left, you should see a red window showcase with a person with sunglasses in the middle, wearing red. Touchdown is in the left side of the sunglasses. Turn so you are facing the entrance to a park. You will see a water fountain in the distance. Take a right here. At the light go straight. Go down the road with traffic to the next light passing a row of blue bicycles. Take a right here. There is long rectangular sign hanging just down the street to your right. Go down the street and stop at this sign. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant on your right.  From the starting position, turn around such that the red and gray dump truck is behind you to the right, and the yellow crane is slightly ahead of you to the right.  Move down the street in this direction until the first street light. Take a right at the light after the fence.  Go until you get to another intersection, and take a right down a narrow street. Take your first right after this at the first intersection. You'll see a dump truck on your right. Continue down this street toward the intersection. In the middle of the intersection, on your left, you'll see a white no-U turn sign. Touchdown is on this sign. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
The building on the right has red doors.
Head down the road and you will pass a playground on your right.
Turn right at the next intersection.
There will be a long green wrap around awning to the left.
Hang another right at the next intersection and you will have red awnings on the left and a dark red awning on the right.  You will pass more bright red doors on your right as you go down the road.
On your right, you will pass some silver chain link fencing, the same fencing with some green wood, and then a small green fence.
There is an opening after a very short bit of fencing after the chain link fencing stops.
Stop here and you will find Touchdown on a red and white sign ahead on the right that is attached to a tall silver pole. From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  The red awning with the yellow characters should be on your right.  Walk forward, and go straight through the first intersection you come to.  After you pass a green awning on your right, turn right at the T-intersection up ahead.  

Walk down this road.  You will pass a store with a yellow sign, red characters, and yellow shutters along the way.  Stop in the middle of the next intersection you come to.

Turn right at this intersection.  You should see a red stone building on your right and a beige stone building on the left.  Walk down this road, and walk straight through the next intersection which is just in front of you.  Keep walking straight, following some scaffolding and a green bike lane on your right.  

Before you come to the next intersection, stop and look to your right.  You should see a green poster with yellow letters inside a window.  Touchdown is sitting on top of a blue mailbox just in front of this window.   Align yourself with the parked cars and the flow of traffic. Make the first left, and continue down. Make another left at the next turn, and then follow this road down and make another left. Down this road, on your left, you'll see a gate with a box that says MAIL on it, touchdown is on top of this box. Position yourself so that when you step through the intersection, there will be a white building with a black fire escape on your left and a fenced in parking area in front of a red brick building on your right. 

Move through the intersection and keep going. When you get to the green scaffolding on your right, look up and you'll see a blue sign with white letters on it. Touchdown is right in the center of that blue sign.  Go with traffic down the one way. Turn right at the first intersection.  Look left and Stop next to the parked black motorcycle. Touchdown is sitting on the seat of the motorcycle. Begin by moving in the same direction as the cars. At the very first intersection, make a left turn. As you proceed down this street, you will be navigating around road construction. Then you will come to an intersection. As soon as you get to the second set of crosswalks of this intersection, stop. There are two vehicles parked on the left side of the road - a black car and a white pick-up truck. Touchdown the bear is sitting on the hood of the white pick-up truck. Turn yourself so you are facing the direction traffic is moving.
Walk down the street going in the same direction traffic is going. 
When you come to the first intersection, where the stop light is turn right. 
Walk down that street street until you come to the first intersection  on that street  then turn right again.  And walk down that street the building you are looking for will be on the left hand side of the street. About half way down the street you will see an indoor parking garage. The parking garage isset back in more than the surrounding buildings. THe parking garage is in in a tall  beige building that has dark brown trim around the doors and window. Go passed that building and the very next building is a beige 3 story building. There will be a gold door. Touchdown is in the bottom left panel of the gold door.  Follow traffic to the light and go right, and right again at the next one.

You'll pass green scaffolding and dumpster on your left and some blue flags with a white emblem on your right.   Proceed until you pass a small fenced in park on your right, and are just past it.

Position verification: Face right.  You should be staring dead on at a small gate between the picket fence of the park and the expensive looking building to the left.

Rotate slightly left and look ahead (on the sidewalk to your right) is a square grey parking meter. Touchdown sits atop it. Turn against traffic and go to the end of the block, stopping before you pass the pedestrian crosswalk.  Turn to your right, and you should see a business that has flowers, a menu, and many tables outside, with striped overhangs.  You should be facing the entrance to it, and see slightly to your right a grey fire hydrant with a white cap and a red pipe cover.

Touchdown is sitting on the white cap of the hydrant. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  You should see a business sign that is yellow sign with red writing on the left.
Turn right at the first intersection.  You should see scaffolding ahead on the right and a shiny overhang on the left.
Turn right at the next intersection as well and you will once again see scaffolding on the right.  You will also see a small cement structure on the left with windows in it.  Head forward and you should be moving alongside what appears to be a park.  Soon you'll come up to more scaffolding on the right and some barriers on the ground.  A few steps into the scaffolding and you should see a dark pole with a blue band on the left.  Touchdown is on this blue band.
 Turn and go in the same direction of the traffic.Go straight at the first 2 intersections. Right before you enter the intersection there are 3 gray and white things on a piece of concrete to your left. Touchdown is sitting on the first one.  You should face the direction of the stop sign with a green building being on your left. Go to the intersection and turn right. There should now be a grocery store on your right with a maroon sign. Keep going straight into the intersection and turn right. There will be a red post in front of a building with graffiti on your right. Go around this curve and the will be more graffiti on your right. Pass the extension ladder on the right. You will come to a road on your right and a building with grey pillars and a lot of windows. There is a heart on one window and a green half moon to two people on the windows. the touchdown will be on the two people on the green moon. Orient so the brick wall is to your left, go to the intersection, and take a right. Take another right at the next intersection, underneath the cool looking stone archways under the bridge and up the street to the next intersection. Standing in the middle of that intersection, to your right, on the side with the track field, is a traffic light pole with a green metal box. The touchdown is at the base of that on the sidewalk between it and the street. Face so you are heading the correct way down the one way street. A small park area is to the left. Keep going straight. The very first 4 way intersection you get to make a left. There is a corner that has a green awning on your right once you are turned the correct direction. Go straight to the next intersection. Make a left.  You will see green dumpsters on the right side. On the left side are a couple bags of trash and a black fire hydrant. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant. Turn so the green mailbox is on your left. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. There should be black flags on your left. Walk straight through the next intersection and stop at the crosswalk for the next one. You should pass some scaffolding on the way. Turn left. You should see an orange cone and a garbage can in front of you on the corner. Touchdown is at the bottom of the garbage can. Orient yourself so that the large gray building is to your right. You will be on a tine side road. Go to the stop sign and make a right turn. Go straight down this road. You will go through two traffic lights. Shortly after going through the second traffic light, the gray stone building to your right will open up with some silver bars. At the end of that opening is a skinny tree. Touchdown is sitting at the bottom of that tree.  Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic, and head to the nearest intersection.  Turn left.  Then take the next left.  Pass the construction zone on the right.  Pass the green awning on the left. On your right there is a very bright piece of artwork, stop before that.  Two windows before it, there is a small grate near the ground.  It might be a vent, either way the bear is there.   Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Take the second left.  Take a couple steps forward and look at the bus stop on your left.  There are two cones on the street in front of it.  The bear is on top of the one closest to the bus stop. Orient yourself so you are facing uphill, with a large brick apartment building on your right and a brick wall on your left with a lot of greenery growing over the top of it.  Walk forward to the next intersection and once you're in it, stop.  In front of you is a white brick apartment complex.  Slighting to your left is a street pole that has a green and white sign with a white plane on the top and a green arrow on the bottom.  Touchdown is in the middle of the plane. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic. Continue moving forward facing several yellow and black signs on your left. Continue following the flow of traffic veering to the right when given the opportunity. You will enter a tunnel,  continue traveling forward making known as access panels in the right and left side of the tunnel.  Stop when you past the Third to last access panel on the right side of the tunnel,  you may have to go past this access panel and count backwards from the end of the tunnel to  find it.  Stop and turn back to your right to face the access panel. Touchdown is in the middle of the access panel. From your starting point, turn around so that the fence and some orange and white barricades are on your left.  Move forward, following the yellow lines on the road surface.  Keep moving forward until you see a classic red pick-up truck parked under the bridge on your left. 

Stop in front of that truck, but do not turn.  Here, you will need to step forward, but to the right.  You should be able to keep moving forward after you take this step,, so please ensure that you see stacks of black milkcrates on your right, and the bridge on your left. before you continue moving forward.  If you can only move further to the right, please go back and try again to follow the edge of the bridge as you step to the right.  

When you are properly situated, continue to move forward with the bridge and parked cars on your left.   You will soon see an orange barrel, a yellow barrel, and a concrete divider on your left.  Walk just past them, and then take a right down a narrow, gray brick road.  There should be decorative rocks in a row on your left as you pass.

Walk straight through the first intersection you come to, and keep moving straight down this brick road.  There will now be large white planters with bushy green plants in them on your left, as well as a row of blue bicycles to your far left.  Keep moving straight.  

Go straight through the next intersection, and keep moving forward so that the red brick building with blue trim around the windows is on your right, and a parking lot is on your left.  Move forward a bit further, passing the red doors of that building, keep going, but then stop just before you enter the T-intersection at the end of the street.  

Look to your left.  There will be a large sign on a black pole.  The top section of the sign has big white letters on a black background.  The bottom section is in two parts.  The bottom-left right is black letters on a white background, and the bottom-left is empty with just some faint backwards letters and an arrow.  Touchdown is in the middle of this white rectangle on the bottom-left (just above the arrow) You're beginning in an intersection, find the entrance to a one-way road that puts red chairs with tables on your right and a brick building with grayish-blue pillars on the corner to your left. Walk in that direction, but don't actually pass through the entire intersection. When you're still a bit before both of those businesses, turn left, so now, that brick building with the blueish pillars is on your right and there's an overpass right in front of you. 

Walk towards that bridge, but turn left just before you get to it. This now puts the overpass on your right. There's a street on your left almost immediately, turn there. So, you're now heading back in the same direction you started, but on a different street. There will be rocks and planters on your left. 

When you get to the next intersection, walk straight through. This is where you started from. Get yourself lined up with the first few bikes on your left. Touchdown is sitting on the seat of the bike closest to the intersection that you just passed through.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
You should have two flags on the left.
Turn left at the intersection ahead.  There will be a long row of bike parking on the right.  Turn left at the next intersection and you will have a large sign of an  apple to your left.
Go forward and straight through the next intersection.
Head forward and stop just before the scaffolding on the right ends and before the barriers on the left start..  You should see some trees with lights on them ahead on the right.  On the corner of the barriers is a little orange light where Touchdown is hiding.

 Turn and walk in the same direction as traffic. Go left at the first intersection. There will be a small cup of coffee painted on a store sign to your right. Walk ahead to the next intersection and go right, walking down the curvy road. You will pass a two toned building on your right, with blue on the bottom and red on the top. Find the double set of stairs to this building, and find touchdown sitting against the door at the top of the stairs.  He will be on the cement directly under the light above the door. Position yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic. A green mailbox with graffiti on it will be on your right and a fire hydrant between two small poles will be on your left. 

Walk straight through the first intersection you get to. At the next intersection there will be a store on your right with a bright orange awning. Turn right here. After you turn, a fenced in park area and basketball courts will be on your left. Continue to the next light. Walk straight into that intersection and before you reach the other side, look to your left and you'll see a trash can on the corner next to a pole. Touchdown is in the bottom of the trash can.  You are on a one way road, go with the flow of traffic. At the next intersection you will make a right, you will have red brick buildings on your right and a light colored building on your left. At the next intersection, you will veer slightly to the right but continue straight, you should have a black fence to your left that has graffiti on it. Again go straight through the next intersection, you will have a fenced sports court on your right. At the next intersection you will make a right, you will have the fenced in sports court on your right and a light colored building to your left. On your right, you will come to a silver street lamp pole that has a vertical hanging banner near the top, the banners dominant colors are red and white. Stop next to this pole and banner. Turn to the right and you will see a fire hydrant between two poles. Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant.  Follow the flow of traffic, with the park on your left and turn right when you reach the end of the park and the first intersection. Continue past the brick building on your left and make a right at the corner with the red stripes on the store windows. Move forward, passing a red awning with bags under it, a big, orange sign and continuing past the small intersection (don't make a left). Stop at the next intersection after you pass a brick building on your right, with arched entryways and brown doors. Turn to your right and look at the brick building, Touchdown will be on the ground, at the center base of the brown doors closest to you. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and facing the intersection right next to you.  Go straight through it.
Turn left at the next intersection that would have several large orange cone barriers ahead.  When you do you should see a food card on your left and a store marquee that is black with white text and a blue sign stuck to it as well.
Head down this road and you should see scaffolding on the left and then pass through some more scaffolding on both sides.  You will pass a playground on the right.  Stop next to the brownish building with green doors, just before you get to the red brick building.  You should see a dark pole with a blue band on the right and slightly behind you in front of that building.  Touchdown is on this blue band.


 Position yourself so the police cars are on the right hand side.
Travel down the street until you hit the first intersection. 
Turn right at the intersection.
Travel down this street. A large building with several columns will be on your left hand side.
Pass through the first intersection you reach.
Go halfway up the block.
The touchdown is a metallic object located between two revolving doors of a hotel on the left side of the street, directly below a large single digit number.
 Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and go through the intersection.
At the next intersection that you can turn right, do so.  The immediate block you see is non-descript, but you should see scaffolding ahead on the right on the next block.
Go straight through the next intersection which is very close and the one that follows that.
When you get to the next intersection you will see a row of blue bikes in the middle of the street.  Turn right.
Don't go far, on your left is a store sign that is yellow on each end and faded in the middle.  In front of that is a green pole with a red sign.  Touchdown is on that red sign.
 Face the flow of traffic.
Go through the intersection.
You'll pass some scaffolding, go to the next intersection.  Turn left.
You'll see some taxi cabs and orange signs on your right.  Go forward until you're next to a large truck with an orange and green sign.
On your right you'll see a red and white sign on top of a blue sign.

Touch down is on this small blue sign. Turn so that you're facing the nearby intersection. Cross the intersection so that the store with the blue and white flags remains on your right. You'll be going down a single lane street in the same direction that cars are driving. Go straight all the way to the next intersection, then turn left. Right before the next intersection, there'll be a green trash bin on your left. Touchdown is sitting on top of the green trash bin. Turn so your facing the direction that traffic flows on your side of the road and move into the intersection. Turn right. Move up the block, and take another right at the next intersection. At then next intersection, your going to take another right. As you go down the block watch the left side of the road. Keep going until the orange brick buildings turn into a green tone bricks. there will be a brown and white awning on the building with green bricks. Stop right in front of the divide between the two buildings. Touchdown is on the back corner of the striped awning at the divide.   Turn so that the parking garage is on your left and go forward. Turn left at the first intersection and continue straight. You will go under a bridge and turn left at the next intersection. Go straight and stop after you pass the garage entrance on your left. The touchdown is on the brown tree logo on your right.  Go in the same direction as traffic.  Move forward to the first intersection.  TUrn right.  There will be a long brick building on your right.  Move forward to the first intersection you encounter and turn right again.  This time there will be some graffitied green construction walls on your left and a long brick building still on your right.  Move down the street until you see a red awning on your left.  Move past this awning and you will then see a building with blue steps just in front of you to the left.  Turn to your left.  You will see a door with some fancy metalwork and a squarish yellow light above it.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this light.   On your left is a building that is beige colored with a brown door and has some security doors that are black with graffiti painted on them. Right beside that two black trash cans and three gray ones. On your right side is a red brick building, has bars over the windows.
Now travel straight until you reach the first intersection then make a right turn.
Take this street until the next intersection and make another right turn.
Although you will have the option to veer to the left you want to remain straight.
You're going to go past the fence that sits on top of all white barrier on the side of the street to your right. Once you pass that look for the first building with the orange awning on the right. Touchdown will be sitting on top of the orange awning right in the center. Turn so you are facing the same direction as traffic and the closest intersection is directly in front of you.
At this close intersection make a right turn.
Now travel one short block to the traffic light  and turn right.
There is now scaffolding and a orange ladder to the right , building of many windows to the left.
At the traffic light just ahead turn right once again.
Now there is scaffold to the right a white building on the left.
Travel to the intersection just ahead of you and stop in the middle of it .
Look to your right and see a business that has green lettering above the entrance.
Touchdown is sitting atop the metal trash can outside of this business.




 Turn so the shop with the murals and the red wall is on your left, and you're facing the nearby intersection.  Go straight through the intersection, and then straight through two more intersections.  After you pass through that third intersection, you'll be fairly close to a big bridge going over your street.  You'll go straight through one more intersection (this is the fourth) just as you start to pass under the bridge.  When you're under the bridge, note on the left side that there's a small archway, then a huge archway, then another small archway.  Stop when you're just about even with the second small arch (the one on your right if you're facing that side of the street).  There is some black plastic stuck in the barbed wire on top of the fence.  The bear is on this patch of black plastic.   Go with traffic and make a quick left turn at the intersection.
Make another left turn at the next intersection. 
One last left turn at the next intersection.
There is some roadwork happening, stop soon as your entering the barriers.
Look left there is an orange sign "Lane closed keep right"
Touchdown is in the middle of the word "Keep" on the two E's


 Head through the tunnel with traffic. There will be a blue sign on your left when you start out. Go straight when you get through the tunnel. There are orange cones on both sides of the street. Keep going stopping before the entrance to the next tunnel. On the left is a traffic light. There is an orange cone directly below it. Touchdown is sitting on top of the orange cone.  Position yourself so the souvenir shop is just a bit ahead to your left, on your right is a tan building with a black strip with white lettering. It looks like a drug store. Go down this road with traffic flow. There should be two white vans parked, one on each side of the road. 

Go down this long block to the next intersection and turn left. You'll pass scaffolding on your left, then when it stops there will be more on the right. Keep going but remember to go left at the first intersection you come to.

Going with traffic flow, you will see a bright blue building on your right. Go past that. When you are almost to the corner, you will see a yellow paper box on the right side in front of some black and white striped awning. Touchdown is on top of that box. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the building with the coffee shop on your right. Move forward going past the intersection directly in front of you. Continue forward to the next intersection and take a right. You should see a building with a black storefront on the right  and a box truck in front of you. Continue forward to the next intersection and take a right. Reorient yourself so the building with the black storefront and green lettering is on your right. Go right and then forward. Once you reach the next intersection go right and then forward so that you are passing straight through the intersection. Continue moving forward until you are just in front of the crosswalk of the next intersection. Turn to your right and you should see a brick building with red awnings and on your left will be a mailbox with some white graffiti on it.  Touchdown is sitting at the base of the graffitied mailbox. Face in the direction that puts the green scaffolding on the left side and a black awning on the right side. Go forward down this long street and at the first intersection make a right turn. At the next intersection take another right turn. Go just past the crosswalk. On the right side of the street are two small silver curved phone booths. They are under the scaffolding the Touchdown is on top of the booth.  Turn so the green railing is to your right. At that intersection directly in front of you, go left. Construction scaffolding will be on your right. Go with traffic flow to the next intersection and turn left. There are food carts parked on each side. Go with traffic flow to next corner and turn left. Construction scaffolding is on your left as you turn. Go down that road past the green wall on the right, where a brick building is on the right and construction road barriers are on the left. There is a gray door in the brick building on the right with a square window. Touchdown is in that window. turn to follow traffic with the iron fence to your right, go straight through the intersection, you will pass an underground parking garage on your left before you reach the next intersection. At the intersection on your left is a restaurant with a crown on the logo, take a left at this intersection. There will be scaffolding on the building to your left and a bus stop, continue down the street, go straight through the next intersection, you will pass a beauty and a grocery store on your right. At the next intersection a a bus stop to your right, there is a man with no shirt on a poster on the back of the bus stop, the bear is on the mans head

 Go forward in the direction of traffic.  you will basically go around the block and you end up almost where you started.  So take the first left, then the next left, left again, and one last time, left.  move forward a step, you will see a bus shelter on your right, touchdown bear is on the sidewalk up against the black rectangluar portion of the bus stop.  Follow the flow of traffic and turn right at the second intersection. Go forward until you see the entrance to a parking garage on your left. The touchdown is on the cone on the bottom left corner of the entrance.  Orient yourself to follow the flow of traffic and go forward. You will go straight through the first intersection and see a scaffolding on your left.There will be a black gate between buildings on your right. There will be a large black square on the gate, which is where the touchdown is.  Turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  The small parking area should be on your right, and the window with the blue and white poster should be on your left.  

Walk forward, and go straight through the first intersection you come to.  You should be walking down a narrow street with a green construction wall on one side and a row of short silver poles on the left side.  

Continue down this road, and you will soon see similar silver poles on the right-hand sidewalk.  Go just a bit further, and stop in the intersection.  

Look to your left and you should see an orange, diamond shaped sign with two black lines on it.  Touchdown the Bear is sitting right on top of the highest point of this orange diamond.   Follow traffic to the light and go right, and go right again at the next one.

Stop just as your reach the wall of the last building on the left, past the small enclosed area with the black fence. Rotate left.  Touchdown is atop the silver cap of the hydrant. From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the headlights of oncoming traffic.  There should be some yellow plastic barricades on the left hand side of the road.  Move forward, and follow the road as it curves round to your left.  

You will soon see a light colored crack or seem running across the road.  Although there is no intersection here, you will have the chance to step to your left.  Do so, and then move forward, so that you are walking down the ramp on the left side of the road.  

As you approach the bottom of the ramp, you will see a bright orange sign on the fence to your left.  Touchdown the Bear is sitting right on top of this sign Follow traffic to the light and go left.  A white building with silver bollards will be to your right and a parking lot to your left. Go to and through the next light, stopping before the crosswalk.  To your right are two orange signs with arrows pointing towards you.  On the green wall is a white sign with a black arrow pointing away from you. Touchdown is impaled on the tip of that arrow. Orient yourself to be going in the same direction as traffic, and the center island is on your left.  Turn right at the first intersection, there should be a pile of black trash bags and a blue bus stop sign near this corner.  Go straight down this block, passing a restaurant painted red on your left.   keep going straight.  Go straight thru the intersection, you should see an empty lot on the corner on your right.  keep going straight.  At the next intersection, turn right.  you should see a pink mural on your left.  go forward for one block and turn right again.  go partway down the block until you see a blue storefront with a tree planted in front of it.  touchdown bear is at the base of the right blue storefront frame. Go against traffic towards the light, with the blue bikes on your right and at the light go left down a tree lined street, so the little grey first floor shop is to your right. Go left at the next light.  There will be scaffolding to your left, and then your right.

Stop just before the right side scaffolding and rotate right. You'll be facing some shops on the grey brick building. One has a red hanger in the window. Touchdown is centered on it. Go with traffic that places the construction on your left. Turn left at the first intersection. A purple awing will be on the right. Turn left again at the next intersection. Turn left at the intersection with the double stop signs. Look right and stop directly next to the gray security door that is slightly open next to the yellow building. Now look left to the other side of the street. There is a white bike slightly in front of you. Touchdown is sitting on the seat of the white bike. Follow the flow of traffic. There should be a red bike leaning against a tree on your right. Continue forward, going under the bridge. You will start to see buildings to your right. Stop at the first building. There is a mural on the building to your right. The touchdown is on the bottom left corner of the mural. Starting out, there should be a small, fenced in park on your left, and a green rectangular banner on the wall on your right.  From here, travel straight until you get to an intersection and turn right.  After you turn, there should be alternating orange and white barrier blocks on your left. Travel to the next intersection where the orange and white barriers end and turn right. Go a short distance to the next intersection. Just before you enter the intersection, on your left, you should see two grayish mailboxes between a blue bench and a green trash can.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the first mailbox. Align yourself so the blue exit sign is on your left, and head up to the intersection shortly ahead of you and make a right. You'll make another right at the next intersection shortly after. Head down this road quite a bit, you'll make the first right turn, there will be a smooth brown building with a white sign that has red letters in two languages on your right as you make the turn.

On your right, stop when you hit the green awning underneath the yellow sign, with a bunch of clothes underneath. If you're facing the awnings, turn right a bit with your camera and you should see a pedestrian sign behind you. Touchdown is on the yellow sign, in the middle. Go with the flow of traffic and make your first right turn at the stop sign.There should be a chain link fence on your right.Proceed down this street and go past a green building on your right.There will be a red building on your right,touchdown is sitting on the top of the building on top in th middle of that building. turn so the cars are on your left, you will pass a tree with orange netting around it to your right. Just before you reach the intersection there is a telephone booth with an advertisement on the side, in the picture there is a red pocketbook, the bear is on the pocketbook Turn yourself so that you are going with the flow of traffic. You should see some large open bays to your right. Go forward on this road. You will pass by a gigantic rat to your left. As you come to the intersection, go straight and you will see a trash can on the corner to your left. The trash can is right next to the light pole. Touchdown is sitting on top of a trash can.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
You should see scaffolding ahead on the both sides.
Turn right at the next intersection and you'll have a national flag on your right with several national flags further down the street on the left.
Head down to the next intersection and you should be close to the national flags.
Touchdown is on the yellow pole, a little bit before the first flag in front of some green newspaper boxes. Orient yourself so you are facing the same direction the cars are traveling, you should see an intersection directly in front of you.  Step into that intersection and turn left.  There will be a storefront on your left that is mostly white with some red on it, and on your right will be a row of storefronts that have little hanging flags on every column of the building.  Walk all the way down this street to the next intersection.  Turn left, and walk down this road with the traffic to the next intersection.  Turn left and start walking down the street.  There will be a green awning held up by scaffolding on your right with an orange and white temporary barrier in front of it.  Keep going down the road.  On your left you'll see a row of bikes you can rent, they're all blue.  At the end of the row of rental bikes, stop and look to your left.  Right next to the light post, you should see a dark green trash bin.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the trash bin. Going with the flow of traffic, go to the first light and turn right.  At the next light, you'll take a right turn. On your right ahead, there will be a garage door with a traffic cone on each side. Just after that there will be light pole with a red and orange sign on it.  Touchdown is in the center of that sign. Going with the flow of traffic, go to the first intersection and take a left.  There should be some traffic barriers ahead on the left, you're doing great at following the directions. Go to the next intersection.  Look to your left at the corner next to the business that is golden.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the tree that to the left of the golden pole. Move yourself so that on the left, traffic is coming at you, and on the right, you are walking in the direction of traffic. When oriented correctly, you should see a waiting area for a bus on the right side of the road. Walk straight down this road. 

Walk until you reach a large intersection. Across the street, a dark gray building should be to your left, and a red brick building to your right. Turn right at this intersection.

Walk straight until you are right before the next intersection. To your left should be a series of trees. The tree closest to the intersection is small and yellow. Right before that is a bigger, browner tree with leaves. Touchdown is sitting on the ground at the base of this tree.
 Align yourself with the flow of traffic. Follow the road all the way up, and then make a left. Take seven steps forward, and you should see a man with one leg up on the curb, and one on the sidewalk, with a red show. Touchdown is on the mans red shoe. Position yourself so the blue awning is on your right and the median with trees is on your left. Go straight through the first intersection, and turn right at the second one. After you turn, there will be a median to your left and a business with a yellow and white sign on your right. 

Go straight at the first traffic light on this street. Pass a store on the right with chairs outside and walk to the crosswalk of the next intersection. Look to your right, and there's a store on the corner with a dark red awning and a square yellow sign in the front window. Touchdown is in the center of the square yellow sign.  Align yourself with the green trash bin on your left, and the no right signs on your right. Head to the intersection, and Keep straight-left, down the one way street with two stairway entrances on the right side of the road.

Make a right at the first intersection, and head down to the next first intersection, making another right. You'll be on the corner on a fenced in court on your right,, and should be standing in front of a turn traffic sign with a red sign on it as well. Touchdown is on the red sign. Turn to face the traffic light, with the red store sign on your right, follow the traffic and make a left at the intersection, where you have the blue awning on your left. The blue awning should now be on your left and purple awnings on your right. Go down the one way street, stop before you reach the intersection, with the black and green store sign above the big open gate. Touchdown is on the center of the green square on that sign above the gate. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, and head to the intersection. Make a left at the intersection, and ignore the first intersection on this road, making another left at the second intersection.

Make a single right at the next intersection, and there should be a yellow sign that wraps around the corner store at the top. In front of the store is a blue post box. Touchdown is sitting on top of the post box. Turn so you are facing the direction that traffic flows. travel up the block and take a right at the first intersection. Proceed, and at the next intersection hang another right. Soon after you will see a green awning on the right with construction scaffolding under it. When you reach the very beginning of the scaffolding stop. The touchdown is where the first pipe of the scaffolding touches the awning.  Turn so your travelling with traffic, and move into the intersection. take a right and move down the block till the next intersection. Take another right. Travel up the block a little ways and there is a three way intersection. You need to take a right. If your going the right way, there is a bright red storefront with scaffolding under it on your right. As you travel down the block, watch the right side. Your looking for a glass storefront with a bright pink neon sign in it. Touchdown is in the middle of the letters of the pink neon sign.  Orient yourself so that you are moving with traffic. Move ahead, passing scaffolding on your right, until you reach an intersection. Turn left and continue to the next light, where you will turn left again.

Now you are on a narrow street and you'll have striped yellow and white barriers on your right. Soon after that barrier ends will be a phone booth on your right. Touchdown is on top of the phone booth. Align yourself with the flow of traffic in your lane. Head straight through the first intersection, and make a left at the second.

Take another left at the next intersection. You'll head straight through an intersection, and shortly after you'll see some parking  underneath a glass building. Stop at the entrance of the tunnel, and you should see one traffic cone on your left, and two on your right. Touchdown is on the left traffic cone. Orient yourself so you are going against the flow of traffic with the orange and white construction barriers on your right. Move forward to the next intersection and take a right. You should see a chain link fence to the left of you in a large green wall on your right. Move forward to the next intersection and take a left. There'll be a chain link fence on your left and a brown building on your right. Move forward to the next intersection and keep left. After you keep left you will be given the option to turn right,  turn right here. There will be orange and white construction barriers on your right and some large stone columns on your left. Beyond the stone columns on the left is a barren tree, move forward until you are in line with this tree. Stop and turn to your left, touchdown will be sitting at the base of the tree. Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. The intersection should now be directly behind you.

2. Pass through the next two intersections (a four-way and a three-way). At the third intersection, take a right. When you reorient yourself, there should be store with produce and flowers underneath a blue awning on your left, and you should be going against the flow of traffic.

3. At the next intersection, take a right and stop. Turn around until you see a red stone building. Right outside of it are two blue mailboxes, a black trashcan, and a crossing signal. Touchdown is sitting it the center of the opening of the trashcan.

Good luck! :) Orient yourself so you are looking down the street with the yellow taxi on the left and the red SUV in front of you, continue straight, You will pass a white pickup truck parked on the right, Go past the flatbed truck on the right, once you get to the intersection take a left turn, You should see a blue box truck in front of you and a mail truck to the right of that, Continue straight, Go past the intersection and you will see a white van parked on the left with some traffic cones around it, Just past the van stop and turn to your right, You should see a stack of  red white and blue pallets with some blue boxes on top of it, click the middle blue box with the white tag on it to find touchdown  Turn so that you are facing the police car and school bus.  Walk straight.  Stay/turn right.  Stop before you enter the intersection.  In the middle of the road there is a curved piece of sidewalk with a black think on it.  I think its a barrier to protect the sign.  Anyway the bear is on top. Going with the flow of traffic, go straight to the first intersection and turn left.  Go to the next intersection and turn left. Up ahead on your right, there will be a light pole with a green and blue banner on it (the first pole you come across).  Touchdown is sitting at the base of the pole on the sidewalk. Turn yourself so that the bridge is behind you, you are pointed in the flow of traffic, and there is a brown building with a lot of windows to your right. Go straight, but kind of to the left on this street. It looks like an entry onto the main road. You should pass and red and white triangular sign on your right. This road winds to the right. You will drive under and overpass. Keep going with the flow of traffic. You will see a tall black wire fence to your right and what looks like a park behind it. Then you will see a yellow square sign also on your right. Touchdown is sitting right below the number on that sign.  Orient yourself with traffic and proceed. Turn left at the traffic light. Turn left at the next light as well. Pass the large company parking lot on the left. Stop just before the sixth carriage on the right; it has a purple interior.Touchdown is sitting on the center of the further seat. Orient yourself so that the raised highway is on your right.  Go to the first stoplight you see and turn left.  There will be parked cars on your right and a fenced in sports court on your left.  Head to the next intersection.  Stop just before you cross over the first crosswalk.  There is a red and white street sign to your right.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this sign.   Turn so the median barrier is on your left and the walking path and lawn are on your right.  Go forward, and the road you're on will curve gently to the right as you go.  As you're nearing the end of the soccer fields on your right, you'll have the opportunity to make a slight right and exit the main road.  Ignore that and keep going straight, but watch the lane splitting off to the right (the lane you're not using to exit).  Walk until you're past the point where the lane begins to split, and stop just before you reach the end of the concrete barrier wall on your right.  The bear is sitting on the end of the barrier wall (on top of the wall). You're beginning right on the edge of an intersection. You should be facing it, so that when you go through, there will be a green wall on both sides and orange construction fencing just up ahead on your right. Go ahead and pass through that intersection, as well as the next one you come to. 

As you approach the following intersection, you'll see a large glass building ahead on your right. Turn left at that traffic light. There is now a pedestrian path on your right with a gray cement wall. Go through the next light you get to.

Just after you're through the intersection, look on your left for a yellow short gate in an opening of the scaffolding. Get right in line with that gate. Touchdown is sitting on the ground at the point where the two sides of the gate meet in the middle.  Walk down past the parked delivery truck ahead and to the right. Stop at the intersection and turn around. Now you'll be walking down the same way you came, against traffic. Walk to the intersection and just through it. Stop before you cross over the zebra crossing. Ahead and to the left is an olive green mailbox. Touchdown is on top of that mailbox. Turn and go in the direction with traffic. Some green boarding in on your right.  White building on your left. At the intersection turn right. A building with a garage door is on the left. Go straight at the next light you come to and then turn right at the next intersection . The orange and white barricades are on your left. A brown and tan building is to your right. Stop a short distance before the next intersection and you will see in the window of the brown and tan building to the right 2 yellow signs. Touchdown is in the middle of the sign on the left. Being in the middle of an intersection, turn so that there is a green bike lane directly in front of you, as you go in the same direction as traffic. Go straight. As you walk, the bike lane isn't green anymore. At the next intersection, go right. There is a painted white bike in the bike lane on this street. Go right at the next intersection. Upon turning, notice a white sign with blue butterfly shapes on it ahead to the right. Stop just before it, and face it. See 3 lights hanging on the building to the right of the sign. Touchdown is sitting on the highest point of the light closest to the butterfly sign.  Entering the middle of the intersection you are in, face a side street going the same direction as traffic, so that lime green signs are above the windows ahead on your right. Go down the street.  At the next intersection, go left and immediately stop.  Touchdown is sitting on the very top of the blue mailbox on the left side corner, centered. You are nearly in the intersection you need to be in. Get in it and turn right. 

Go to the next intersection and while in the middle of it, look to your right a bit in front of you. There is a black hydrant between two silver poles to your right. Touchdown is on top of that hydrant. Orient yourself so you're facing the closest intersection.  Go forward, crossing straight through the intersection.  Continue down the road, and when you reach the next intersection with the the park in front of you, turn right.  Go forward to the next intersection and turn right.  Notice the bike rental station on your right and go about halfway down the row of bike stalls and stop.  Look to your right behind the bike rental stalls and see a graffiti covered mail box.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this mailbox. With the dumpster to your right, go straight ahead to the first intersection and turn right.  You'll have blue awnings on your right. Go to the next intersection and turn right again. There will be some scaffolding on your right shortly ahead.  Go to the next intersection. On the scaffolding to your right over the walkway is a white sign with green lettering for the store's name.  Touchdown is in the dots design of this sign. From your starting point, please turn around so that the intersection is behind you, and you see gray metal shutters with lots of graffiti on your right.  Walk up this road, and the row of orange and white construction barriers should be on your left as you pass.  You can now just walk straight up this road, until you come to an intersection.  

When you reach the intersection, take a right.  You should pass between a red brick building with a black awning and outdoor tables on your right, and a black storefront with white lettering on your left.  

Walk up this street, and walk straight through the first intersection you come to.  There should be a white-walled storefront with green trim on your right on the other side.  Walk a short distance further, and stop just after the bright yellow sign a pole on the right-hand sidewalk.  If you can turn around and just barely see the bare-metal back of that sign, you are in the right spot. 

Turn around and look onto the left-hand sidewalk, and you will see a small brown fire hydrant between two short white poles.  Touchdown is sitting on top of that hydrant. Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. There should be a fenced-in playground up ahead and to your right.

2. At the intersection ahead, take a left. There should be an awning with brown and white stripes to your left.

3. Take another left at the next intersection. There should now be a park area and some courts to your right.

4. Follow this road for a while, and take another left at the next intersection. There should be a green retaining wall to your left and some differently-colored awnings just after that.

5. Once again, take a left at the next intersection. You should be on the street that you started on. There should be graffiti covering the walls on either side of the street.

6. Follow the graffiti on the right. Stop once you're at the last section of it--don't completely pass it up. You should also be standing in front of a green signpost with a white and yellow sign with black writing.

7. Looking back at the graffiti, you should see a pink heart as the last bit of it. Touchdown is in the middle of that heart.

Good luck! :) Go with the flow of traffic to the first intersection and take a left turn.  The sign on the building to your left will be pink, black, and white.  Go to the next intersection and take another left turn. Once you pass an american flag on your left, keep your eyes on the right side of the street.  You'll see a black fire hydrant, then not too far away an olive mailbox in front of a business that has a roll down gate.  Touchdown is on top of the olive mailbox. Turn yourself so you are going the wrong way against the flow of traffic. 
Continue straight. You will come to an intersection. At this intersection, you don't turn, you keep straight but you have to go slightly to the right to move around the concrete median. 
Once you are on the right side of the street, now moving with the flow of traffic, continue straight. 
After going straight for a bit, you will come to another intersection. Again, you don't turn but you need to move yourself so you are on the left side of the road (the left side of the median) moving the opposite way of the cars. 
Continue straight through one interection. When you come to the second intersection, turn left. 
Turn yourself so you are looking down this own way street. 
Continue straight, passing a light pole with a plant on it on the left side of the street. After passing this pole with the plant, look on the left and you will see 2 orange and white construction barriers. Touchdown is sitting on top of the first one, the one closest to you.  Stand so that you are moving with the flow of traffic on the wider street, passing the blue mailbox on your right, and passing sidewalk coverings on both sides of the road. When you reach the intersection, turn left. Now you are on a more narrow street with a lot of construction areas. At the next intersection, turn left. This intersection has bright store signs. Stop just after turning. On your left is a gray umbrella/canopy. Touchdown is on the point of the umbrella. Follow the flow of cars.  Go to the intersection and turn right.  Take 2 steps forward on that road, and then go back the other direction, but stay on this road.  Go through that intersection and continue following the mail carrier. Turn left at the next intersection.  Follow the white car.   Look for the green mailbox on the right.  The bear is sitting on top. You need to position yourself with with traffic with the white truck in front of you. You're going to go past the first side street and then make a left at the next side street. As you start down this road, there is a park on the left. You're going to go forward until you see that white truck, and then go more until you see the white bus appear on your right. Your touchdown will be in the middle of the greenish yellow sign on the pole.  turn to go with traffic, take a left at the 1st intersection. At the second intersection take a left, there will be 4 blue banners hanging from the building on your right. you will see a large church like building with 3 brown arched doors on your right, just past that is a red building with a flag above the garage door, the bear is on the door handle on the door to the left Face in the same direction as all the parked cars on the sides of the road.  Move to the first intersection and turn left.  Be very careful with this turn!  The road you are moving onto is a two way road with a small median: be sure to turn left so you are travelling on the right side of the road with traffic, not moving head on into traffic!  Move forwards to the first intersection and turn left.  If you were on the wrong side of the road you won't be able to make this turn.  Now you'll be on a narrow street with cars parked on both sides and a bicycle lane.  Go forwards until you see a long series of bike racks on your right with only a single blue bicycle in it at the far end.  Touchdown is at the base of the very first bicycle rack in this series. Orient yourself in the direction of the intersection and take a right. Take another right at the nxt intersection with the tan building to the right. Go straight down the road, past some construction, and there should be a bright red door near some blue doors to the right. Touchdown is sitting at the base of this door. Orient yourself so you are going down the street the same direction as the traffic, and the closest intersection is at your back.  Go down to the end of the block and at the intersection, take a right.  Go up to the next intersection and take another right.  Now walk all the way down this block, and stop as soon as you think you're in the intersection, but you haven't been given the opportunity to turn yet.  Ahead of you on the right side, next to the building with a red awning and bunches of flowers out front is a blue and white rectangular sign with a black arrow and black words.  Touchdown is in the middle of this sign. Face the street light and turn left. Follow this road and turn left at the first light. Stop when even with the first traffic cones on the right. The bus station on the right has a picture of a woman and Touchdown is on her smile. Turn so your travelling with the flow of traffic. Take a left at the first intersection. Go up the block. When you pass a big building with giant circular windows, your about halfway there. Keep an eye on the left. You will eventually come to a fenced in area with a bunch of trees and benches in it. The gate should be open. You will go passed the gate, and stop. Touchdown is on top of the right side post of the open gate.  Turn until the orange and white construction dividers are on your right and the metal store doors are on your left. Walk straight to the next intersection and turn right. There should be a tree in the middle of the road to your left. Walk straight until there is a black and silver metal store door under a black awning to your left. Touchdown is placed above that black awning inside the air conditioner.  Align yourself with the postal truck. Go up to the intersection, then make a right, and then another right at the next intersection. Go down this road until you see the silver SUV with the storage compartment on top of it. Touchdown is sitting on the side logo of the storage compartment. Go with traffic down the one way street.  Turn right at the first intersection.
Keep straight at the next intersection. Road work will be on your left. Keep straight again at the next intersection. Stop before the white line behind the cross walk at the next intersection. To your left, in front of you, there is a black fire hydrant between two orange poles. Touchdown is sitting on top of the black fire hydrant. 
Turn yourself around so you are staring directly at the white van with blue on the bottom. Take this right. You should see a bank on your right and a type of clothing or shoe store on the left. There is a black SUV in front. Follow this road. Go through the first intersection that has all the scaffolding on the right. Then go through the second intersection. There will be a lot of trees on your left and a tall castle looking building on the left. Your're going to get to the next intersection and take a left. You should have a sign on your right with a blue background and a red SUV to your right. Go down past the green yellowish sign and you will see a ball court on your left. There should be a orange sign by that fence. Your touchdown is in the middle of that sign.  Follow traffic, with the yellow awning with red text on a black building to your right.  Stop just past the red brick building with white pillars on the left.  Rotate right to look directly at the door on a white brick building.  One of the black trashcans to the left of the door has a green sticker on it. Touchdown is adhered to it. Turn so you are facing the bridge.  You will travel just far enough so you can turn around on this road, without going through the bridge.  Once you have turned around the bridge will be behind you and the park in the chain fence will be on the left.  Travel down this road, passing the first road that leads to your right, then the next one that would go left.  Keep going until you are almost to the four way intersection with crosswalks.  Look to your right and there is a blue park bench.  Touchdown is sitting in the very middle of the bench, on the bench seat.  This is the single bench closest to the corner to the left of the building doos. Turn so that the building with the black awning is to your left. You will be going with the flow of traffic. Go forward on this street. When you come to the second intersection, make a right turn. You will see a reddish brown brick building with a green awning to your right. Go down this road and make another right turn at the traffic light. You will pass by a green awning to your right. Keep going. Before you get to the next traffic light, there will be a gray building with two red doors and a gold cross above the doors. Touchdown is sitting between the two gold handlebars of the glass doors.  Go into the nearest light with traffic and go left.  Go through the next light, and take a left at the next one.  There'll be an island in the middle of the street to your right with red tables and chairs.  Go left again as soon as you can, with the all green building second from the corner on your left and a green entry canopy ahead on your right. Turn left down the small street after the orange construction barrels on your left (one way at a 3-way)

Stop directly in front of the dark grey door with the long rectangular window that's been painted over with white.  Rotate left.

There is a square orange sticker on a silver street lamp pole in front of you, which Touchdown is adhered to the center of. Orient yourself with traffic then proceed and turn right at the light. Turn right at the next light as well. Stop when a parking ramp downward is on your left. A first floor window air conditioner should be on your right. Touchdown is on top of it. From your starting point, please turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  The scaffolding with the green canopy should be on your right. 

Walk forward into the small intersection just ahead of you.  Take a left at this intersection and walk under the bridge, and then stop in the middle of the intersection on the other side.  

Take a left at this intersection.  The bridge should be on your left as you proceed, and a red brick building with silver garage doors should be on your right.  Walk straight down this road, and go straight through the first intersection you come to, into what looks like a parking lot.  

The road will have some kinks in it, but as long as the bridge is on your left, keep moving forward, and go straight through the next intersection you come to.  Again, just keep the bridge on your left and move forward.  

Look for a white van parked on your right, with a small yellow and green logo. There should also be an open gate on your left, with some trucks parked behind a fence.   Walk a short distance further, and stop when there is a side street off to your left.  Take one step to your left here, onto that side street, then stop and look back at the road you were just on.  

There are three sets of arrows painted on the road surface.  Touchdown is sitting on the road, at the tip of the arrow in the very front.   Follow traffic to the light and go right, and then go through the next light. Stop as soon as you're exactly at the orange and white k-walls on your right and standing at the crosswalk.  

Look at ahead and to your right, to find a tall red callbox on the corner, atop which Touchdown sits. You are on a one way road, go with the flow of traffic. Go straight to the next intersection and make a right. You will have on your left a dark grey store front and on your right a parked bus. Go straight to the next intersection, go straight through, stop on the crosswalk, then turn around and go back to the intersection and make a left. You should now have a light colored building with light colored awnings on your left and green construction walkway on your right. Go just to the end of the green construction walkway on your right and then stop. Turn to your left and you will see two drainage grates on the sidewalk. You will also see a part of the building wall that is dark grey in color with four small windows on it. Touchdown is in the center of the small window on the right.  Position yourself so you are following traffic direction . Go to the intersection. scaffolding will be on your right at this point. Now turn right at this intersection. Now the scaffolding is on your right. Go straight now. Pass the garbage truck on the right , when you reach the driver seat , look to your right, you will see a store with its name in red letters. Then below the red letters, there will be a green sign on the window. The green sign is big with white letters . The touchdown is in the middle of that green sign.  Put the rental bikes on your right.  Then take your first right, then take the next right.  There will be a movie theater on your right.  When the road ends, turn right.  Enter the next intersection and look right and behind you.  There is a green trash can with something orange sticking out.  The bear is on the orange part.   To verify you are in the correct position there should be a brick building on your right with a dark-colored door and white Windows that are rectangular. There is also a green set of boards in front of the house. On your left should be another brick building that is primarily red but has a black door with blue trim. This building has black fencing around. It also has one gray wall.
Once you are in position please go straight on the street.
Take this street to the first intersection then make a left turn.
Head straight until you get to the first intersection then make another left turn.
If you are on the correct street to your right is a big white dish grayish colored building with black windows have small black squares. To your left is a subway entrance and a green awning that stretches across the sidewalk.
Please continue straight.
After traveling some distance you will run into a building with a brown awning on the left side of the road.
Directly across the street is a building that is white on the bottom in brick on top. This building on the right has two pillars on either side of the stairs. Touchdown is sitting on directly on top of the planter on the left side of the stairs. Go down the street with the fence and construction blocks to your left, through that first intersection and under the tunnel-like overhead covering the road. Go right at the intersection, with traffic flow, but not under the dark gray walkway. Touchdown is on the upper left corner of that big green sign on the walkway.  Head in the same direction as traffic.  Go to the first intersection and turn left.  There will be a low building on your left with a black and a red stripe on the top.  Go to the next intersection and turn left again.  The low building will still be on your left. Follow this street.  You will see a short tree on your left that has brownish/green leaves.  Pass this tree. You'll then see a much taller tree immediately on your left.  Pass this one as well and then stop.  Slightly ahead to your left is a white sign with red lettering.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this sign.   Orient yourself so that there is an oyster bar on your right and continue straight through the intersection. Continue straight through the next intersection and then turn right at the next intersection. There will be scaffolding to your right and a sidewalk closed sign on the left. Continue down the street, proceeding straight through the first intersection and turning right at the second intersection. There will be a popular sandwich shop chain on the right corner. Green dumpsters line the far right lane of the street you just turned on. Touchdown is on the top corner of the first dumpster closest to you in the street.  Align yourself with the flow of traffic, and head down to the intersection. Make a left, and shortly after, make another left.

At the next intersection a bit down, make one more left. On your right very shortly after the turn, you should see a red and orange oddly shaped awning.Touchdown is on the base of the potted plant underneath the orange awning With the black fence to your right, GO WITH traffic.  GO LEFT at the light. Then GO LEFT again at the next one. At the end of the block, GO LEFT and STOP. To your right should be a white building with glass doors, with a red brick upper story.  Ahead to your left, a brown brick wall with a red door.

ROTATE LEFT.  You should be facing between the first and second window of the brown brick building.

FIND Touchdown adhered to the small square white vent in the wall under the first window. Go in the same direction as traffic.  There will be lots of blue bikes to your left. Move forward to the first intersection.  Turn right.  There will be a large clock on a pedestal to your right.  Proceed forward to the next stoplight.  Turn right again.  There will be a backhoe on your right.  Proceed forward.  After a while, you will see a long line of blue bikes on your left.  On your right will be the entrance/exit to a parking garage.  After you pass all but one of those entrances to the parking garage, stop (the last entrance that has a pile of cardboard boxes in the front will still be in view.  Turn to your right. There is a white sign on the sidewalk with red lettering at the top of it.  Touchdown is sitting on this sign, on the very left side of the top edge.   You need to be following traffic and go through the first intersection. At the next intersection you need to take a right. You will be going into a tunnel. When you get into the tunnel you will see a big red red sign with white lettering. Your touchdown will be the middle of that sign.  start going down the street so that the cement barrier is on your left  Go to the first street and turn right. Again go one block and turn right go into the parking deck about half the way through you will see trucks on the right side just before those there is a door on the right side. Touchdown is sitting in front of the first pillar on your right. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  The intersection should be right in front of you, turn left.
You should see food carts on both sides of the street.
Just past the scaffolding on the left, turn left again.
Turn left at the next intersection and you will have scaffolding to the right and an all brick building to the left.
Head forward and make your final left at the next intersection.  You will have small green awnings to the left and scaffolding to the right.
Move forward to the first tall silver pole on the left that has a white and red sign on top of a red and white sign.  Touchdown is on the white and red sign.
 Face the closest traffic light and make a quick right. The blue and gray awning will be on your left. Stop right after you pass the third intersection, with the white and blue awning on your left. On your right, where there is scaffolding, Touchdown will be on the orange part of the white sign that is above the crosswalk sign. Get turned so the green scaffolding is on your left just ahead of your position. Go straight. 

At the first intersection keep straight. At the second intersection go straight again. At the third intersection you will again go straight. There is green scaffolding with a red top to it on the left as you go.

At the next intersection make a right turn. Cross over the middle of the road and make another right turn almost immediately. Now you are on the other side of the road you were on previously. The green scaffolding with a red top will now be on your right side. 

When you reach the first intersection, Go straight. There are a lot of orange barrels in the middle on your right. On your left there are small blue awnings on the building. Stop when the first one is right next to you. Facing the left to the door under the first blue awning is a doorway. Touchdown is in the middle of that doorway on the ground. Align yourself with the flow of traffic. Ignore the first two intersections, and at the third, make a right. Follow this road until you see the parking sign, with an open brown gate and a closed brown gate in front of it. Touchdown will be on the handle of the glass door to the right of the open brown gate, with the brown paper and tape covering the inside. Look for the building with a large white section painted on it and go in this direction. Turn left at the first intersection. Look right and find a pinkish colored building with five trash cans outside of it. There is a red bike on the sidewalk. Touchdown is sitting on the sit of the red bike. Orient yourself with the scaffolding to the right. At the first big intersection, take a right, then take another right. There should be a green brick building to the left. Go straight. There should be a playground to the left. There is a flower lamp to the left. Touchdown is sitting on this lamp. Turn so that you're facing the same way that the cars are driving. Go forward to the next intersection, then continue straight across. Continue until right before the next intersection. There will be a fire hydrant on the left corner. Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant. Go with the flow of traffic, and turn right at this intersection.   At the next intersection, turn right.  Go to the next intersection and turn right again.  You'll have a green-space median to your left.  You will go down to the next intersection and make your final right turn. Not to far ahead on on your left, will be a pile of cardboard boxes.  Touchdown is on top of a brown cardboard box closest to the street, leaning against the purple cardboard box. Align yourself with the flow of traffic of the parked cars. There should be a hydrant on your right.

Head down, and make a right, you'll have to hit back right, then right. At the next intersection, make another right.

Head down to the next intersection, and make a right. Look behind you, and you should see a black motorbike parked on the corner closest to you, left if you have turned around. Touchdown is sitting on the seat of the bike. Position yourself so you see green scaffholding on the right and the left. You should also see a yellow paper thing on the left. Go down this road. Go to the intersection and take a left. Chinese signs are on the left side. Go down until you see the fence where there's a court. Find the tree. Look left. Find the pole. Touchdown is in the middle of the red sign.  Putting the close intersection behind you, walk ahead, going against traffic. The potted green shrub to your right.Go left at the next intersection. The corner windows on the right of you will be colored blue. Go left at the next intersection. The store on your right has vegetables and flowers for sale. Eventually seeing a playground on the right, go almost to the end of it and stop in front of the entry gate, left of the swing set. Touchdown is sitting on the ground, in the middle of the iron gate, with his back up against it.  Turn so the red fire hydrant and the little bit of construction action is on your left.  Move forward to the first intersection you come to, and turn right.  You'll be in the right-most lane, with parked cars along your right and a grassy lawn on your right. As you move forward, you can merge onto the main road at your left instead of continuing along the parked cars.  Take this merge to the left.   The road you're on will curve gently to the right.   You'll head toward an overpass. Stop when you're almost under it, but haven't actually passed under it yet.  Look across all the lanes of traffic to your left.  In the tan wall on your left, just before the underpass area there is a dark-colored door.  The bear is in the center of that door.  Rotate to face forward toward the nearest intersection.
Move forward through the intersection

Proceed to the next intersection
Turn right at the intersection

Proceed to the next intersection
Move forward through the intersection

Proceed to the next intersection
Move forward through the intersection

Proceed toward the next intersection
Just before you reach the crosswalk, stop. If you are standing in the painted section of the cross walk, you have gone to far and should move back.

Rotate left to see a black wire trash can near an orange paper box on the corner. The bear is sitting on top of the black trash can.
 Go with traffic and the bridge on your left to the stop signs and go right. Go straight through the next stop signs, where the dual grey striped white bollards are to your left.  Enter the light, going left in the proper lane with traffic, but stopping before crossing the crosswalk.  The bridge should be to your right, and directly to your left, the traffic median with the silver pole and green boxes, as well as a single dull grey squarish bollard.  

Look at the bridge ahead of you, from this position. There will be a yellow diamond sign with an arrow pointing up at the top and down at the bottom on the bridge (not the one on the green sign). Touchdown is adhered to its center. Turn around and go down the street with the chain link fence on your right. go to the first traffic light and turn right. At the next light turn right again.at the next light before you can turn stop and turn so that you are looking at a garbage can on your left and touchdown is sitting on top of the can. You need to find the yellow car and pass them. You need to go up to the construction cones and take a left. When you take a left, on your right you will see a park. Go until you see the blue security box on the left. Your touch down will be the camera above it.  Orient yourself so that there are gold doors to your right and go with the flow of traffic. When you get to the light (there won't be an option to turn), notice the parked bus ahead on your right and the white van parked ahead on your left.  Go until you are even with the driver's window of this bus. Touchdown is on the green and white sticker on the lower part of that window.  You're beginning in an intersection. Find the path that takes you down a one lane road with black scaffolding on your right and a business with a light-colored sign with green writing and symbols on your left. 

Turn right at the first intersection. Up ahead on your right, you'll see a blue tarp hanging from scaffolding. Just past this is a traffic light where you're going to turn right again. 

Go a short distance to another intersection, and make a final right turn. Go to the next traffic light, but don't go through it or turn. Stop there at the crosswalk. There is a cement barrier in front of scaffolding on your right. At the very end of the barrier (where it meets the crosswalk) is a yellow reflective piece on top. Touchdown is sitting on that yellow object.  You will be inside a tunnel face the yellow sign with 3 lights on it. Go straight under another tunnel. As soon as you get of the tunnel take a right. There should be a building on your right with a lot of glass and slanted concrete on top of it. Go straight there will be green fencing on the left. When you come up to the intersection you will be facing orange and right barriers, turn right. Go straight until you come to a building with wood or cardboard in some of the windows on your left. There will be a green fence in front and something that looks aluminum in front of the green fence. Touchdown in right in the middle of this aluminum.  Go with traffic to the nearest intersection.  Turn left at the first intersection. Turn left again at the next intersection.  Scaffolding will be on your left than your right. Look left for a building with yellow columns at the base. Stop just pass the last yellow column. Look down to the right of the yellow column there is two red fire hydrant ports on the building. Touchdown is sitting in between the two red ports.
 Position yourself with the flow of traffic. Scaffolding will be on your left and a very tall orange and white construction barrel will be on your right. When you get to the intersection, turn right. After you turn, you'll see a colorful building on your left with a pink sign and pictures of cartoon characters in the many windows. 

Walk ahead just a short distance and turn right again. Now, on your left, you'll see a large green sign with a teddy bear wearing a pink bow on her head. Next, you'll see a building with a lion on a yellow sign on your left. Just past this, there is a business ahead on the left with outdoor seating and and orange and white striped awnings. Touchdown is sitting on the first table you get to that's closest to the sidewalk.  Position yourself so the purple store is on your left hard side.
Cross over the first street you see.
take a left at the next intersection.
Travel down this road, you'll pass lots of fire escapes. 
Make a left at the next intersection.
After turning left, look up and to the right.
You will see a purple flag with a white square in the middle.
The touchdown is in the middle of that white square.
 Turn to where you're going with the traffic. Go straight and keep going straight past the first intersection, and also the second intersection. Turn left at the the third intersection. Go straight just a little to where you're just ahead of the store just ahead with the red neon sign. Turn around to look back where you came from. The bear is on the middle of the neon sign. Go with traffic to the nearest intersection. Go straight at the intersection. A store with purple awing will be on your right. Turn right at the next intersection. A row of blue bikes will be on your left. Go straight at the next intersection.  Look right. Stop next to the second bike under the green scaffolding. Touchdown is sitting on the seat of the bike. Turn to face with traffic, then go to the end of the block, past the blue bikes. Now take a right, and go past the grocery store, and to the end of this block. There will be a park across the street on your left; now turn left, the park will be on your right. Go forward until just past the playground in the park. On your left, you should be between a row of four garbage cans and one garbage can. Touchdown is in front of the one can. Orient yourself so you were falling so traffic with the construction to your left. Continue forward to the next intersection and take a right. You should see a blue storefront to your rights and a Subway entrance on the left. Proceed down this road passing through the first and second intersection You have reached the third intersection you should see a green awning on the building across the intersection to the right and a gray storefront directly to your right. Continue into the intersection and take a left. You should see three orange traffic cones to your right. Stop when you have reached the first traffic cone. Turn to your right and you should see a red fire hydrant, a potted plant, and a bicycle in front of you. Click the center of the front wheel of the bicycle to find touchdown.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic with the scaffolding behind you on the left.  Move forward and turn left immediately in the intersection you start in.
The scaffolding should now immediately be on your left with some orange netting up ahead.
Go all the way down to the intersection and turn left. When you do you will have a red awning on your left and a business with a neon yellow sign.
Go forward until you see an orange cone on the ground.  Above it is a blue circular sign with a vehicle on it.  Touchdown is on that sign. Look for the two green awing on the left and go in this direction.
Keep straight at the intersection keeping the green awing to your left.
Keep straight at the next intersection a blue building is at the corner on the right.
Keep straight at the next intersection. Your still on the same street your started on.
Look right to the building lined all the way with a long green awing. 
At the end of the building at the intersection turn left and stop  You will be a cross the street from the building with the long green awing Look right back at the building with the long green awing there is a yellow news paper box next to a row of bikes in front of a white van, which you are also a cross from.. Touchdown is on top of the yellow news paper box.


 Going with the flow of traffic, go to the first intersection and take a right. The scaffolding should be on your left now.  At the next intersection, take a right.  On the left you should see a red flag, Touchdown is hiding in the center of it. With the blue awning on the left, go to the next intersection and take a right.  Go to the next intersection and take a right.  You should now have a flower market on your left, go straight now.  You will pass on your right side a large school play yard with a black metal fence. As soon as you pass the metal fence, look at the artwork on the side of the building.  Touchdown is hiding the large black dot at the top of the artwork. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
There should be a bridge ahead of you.
At the intersection just before the bridge, turn right. The bridge will be on your left.
Go past the 3-way intersection and a bit past the 4-way intersection after that.
You should stop before you get to the chain link fence and barriers to your left.
On the corner of the fence next to you is an orange light hanging at an angle.  Touchdown is hiding on this light. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
You should see a green brick building on your right.
Head into the intersection and turn right.  The green brick building will still be on your right.  Head down this street, passing a green fencing in area with potted plants in it on your right.
Hang a right at the intersection ahead.  Look up and to your left and if you see a bell by a cross, you're in the right place.  Go forward down this road through the first intersection.  You will pass some barriers on your left next.
Go straight through the next intersection as well.
The road splits next, stay to the right.
Stop before the intersection when you still have 3 green signs and a white and black sign on two poles to your left.  Touchdown is on the middle green sign. Staying on your current street, turn around till you see a bright red door ahead of you on the right. Walk ahead, seeing a single tall skyscraper in the distance. Go right at the first intersection you come to. There should be colorful signs to your left and a plain gray building on your right. Walk ahead, passing straight through the upcoming intersection. Passing by green dumpsters on your right, turn right at the next intersection. Pass by neon pink lit windows ahead on your left. Pass by a painted heart on your right and turn right at the next intersection. You will see two potted plants next to each other on the side walk ahead to your right. Touchdown is sitting on the ground right between them, with his back against them. Move with traffic flow to the next corner and turn right. When you turn there is a brown brick building on your right and a tan colored block building on your left.
Go down this road, past the white awning on the right, passing some scaffolding on the right, but not completely to the end of that. Across from the scaffolding, on the left as it starts is a brown building, a block tan building, a brick tan building, then a red brick building with lights on the front. Touchdown is on top of the first light on that reddish/brown brick building on the left. With traffic, go to the stop signs and left. Go left at the light. Go left again at the next one.  Stop just shy of the end of the block, when you're between the two red awnings on the left, staring at a grey wall. Rotate left.  Touchdown is sitting on the head of the yellow duck with the red bill. Head in the direction of the orange traffic cones.  You will be going in the correct direction if you pass parking lots on both the right and left sides of the street.  Continue straight, under the bridge and continue straight through the intersection.  You should see a fenced off playground on your left.  On the sidewalk are two grey posts and a dark grey fire hydrant in between them.  Touchdown bear is at the base of the fire hydrant.  Turn so that the orange striped barrier is on your right. Walk forward, passing a big red dumpster on your left. You will get to an intersection with scaffolding on the front-left corner. Turn left here. Walk forward, passing some bikes on the left. When you get to the next intersection, make a left.  There will be a 3 story brick building on your left. Pass that building. There will now be another 3 story brick building on your left. Stop when you are in front of its second door. Now, turn to your right, and you will see a blue rectangle by one of the first floor windows on the building there. Touchdown is in the center of it.  From your starting point, please turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  There should be flags hanging on the wall on your left.  Walk down this street until you come to an intersection.  

Turn to your right in this intersection.  You should see light red arches on your right and gray columns on your left.  Walk down this street until you come to the intersection.  As you approach the intersection, try to walk toward the right side of the fork on the other side.  

You should then be able to turn to your right when you get into the middle of the intersection.  You should be facing down a narrow two-way street with a yellow awning up ahead on your left, and a blue and a black awning on your right.  

Walk down this street until you come to an intersection.  Turn to your right in this intersection.  You should see a red stone wall on your left with black-bordered storefronts, and a red brick wall on your right.

Walk a short distance down this narrow road until you have just passed the pink storefront on the right.  Look to your right, and you should be looking directly at a small temporary green wall on the sidewalk.  There is a bulletin board with lots of white papers on the right side of this wall.  Touchdown is sitting just on top of the middle of the top edge of this bulletin board. Turn with the flow of traffic and head to the nearest intersection.  Turn right, pass the flags, then take the next right.  Pass the vendor with the yellow/blue umbrellas, then look back at it.  There is a black crate on the ground with white paper on it.  The bear is on the white paper. Orient yourself so that you are facing the same direction that the parked cars are facing.  Go to the first intersection and turn right.  There will be a right red awning up ahead on your right.  Go to the next intersection and turn right again.  There will be a long row of blue bikes off to your right.  Go all the way down this long street, but stop before you cross over the first crosswalk.  To your right will be two spherical green and white lights.  Touchdown is on top of the right one (the one nearest you). Turn until you're going with the flow of the traffic and go straight. Take a left at the first intersection and go straight until right before you get to the end of this street. There should be a white van parked to your left, the bear is on the taillight closest to you on the white van. Follow the flow of traffic, with the white building on your left, and make a right at the first intersection. You will now have scaffolding on the left, and a blue awning on your right. Get to the intersection up ahead and make your last right. There will be a brown, brick building on your left and a silver storefront on your right. Move forward and stop after passing two orange store signs on your left, followed by a silver store sign. Touchdown will be on the red figure logo of that silver store sign. Start by positioning yourself in such a way that you have a big stone gate to your right, then walk forward. When you reach the intersection turn left and go straight. As you walk you will reach another intersection, just pass this one and keep going forward. At the next intersection turn left and go straight. As you keep going you will reach a building with scaffolding to your right, reach the end of the scaffolding and stop. Touchdown is in the middle of the street sign to your right on the part with red letters. turn yourself so elevated roadway is on your left and start down the street.  turn right at first intersection. Continue straight through first intersection.  You will see a high iron fence on your left. As you pass a parking lot behind that fence, you will see a driveway on your right.  Touchdown is on the sidewalk in front of the white sign to the right of the driveway. Hello. Please orient yourself facing the flow of traffic and the direction of the parked cars. There will be a bright red building with white patios to your left side. To your right side, you will see some black iron gates surrounding a glass door on a darker red brick building.

Walk forward to the first intersection. In front of you, there will be a dark brown building to your right with colorful food signs in the window. It will have a brown and white striped awning. 

Turn left here.

You will now see a long string of buildings with green awning to your right side. There will be a brown building with white windows to your left side. Walk forward to the next intersection. Turn left again. 

You will see a red brick building with a black sign above it to your right side. It will have red, white, and green letters on it. To your left, you will see rainbow banners and flags.

Move forward down this path while keeping an eye on your right side. You will pass a loading bay with clear strips hanging down as well as a big white produce truck. Walk just beyond the white produce truck so you are equal and flush with the green open garage. You will be surrounded by several yello taxi vehicles.

Now turn to your left side. There is a red brick building with bars on the windows. There will be a black door with one square window in the middle. Touchdown is in the middle of this square window on the black door. Good luck! Turn yourself until you see orange and white construction barriers enclosing something covered in white plastic and head down that street.  You will pass a brick wall with iron grates on top of it on your right.  Turn left at the next intersection and travel down the street.  Construction scaffolding will be on your left as you move down this street.  Part way down you will also see some lower construction scaffolding on your right. Turn left at the next intersection.  A green subway station entrance will be on your right as you move down this street.  Additional construction scaffolding will be on your left. Continue straight through the next intersection.  This intersection consists of two separate streets.  As you leave the intersection, you will see a trashcan near a traffic pole on the left corner of the intersection.  Touchdown is sitting on the sidewalk in front of the trashcan. Position yourself so you are following traffic direction , the bridge should be on your left. Go forward till you reach the 3rd intersection. There will be a red bus to the left and a white limo to the right. Turn right at this intersection. Once you made the turn, the school bus will be on the left and the fenced area will be on your right. Now go straight, pass the first 3-way intersection, then pass the second 3-way section. Continue going forward, you will see a yellow school sign on the right side of the road. There is a alley right before you reach the school sign on the right. Stop when you can see the end of the alley, like you are in the middle of the intersection of the valley and the road you are on, then look at the school sign (if you go too far or not far enough you will not be able to click for the touchdown). The touchdown is on the human figures on the school sign.  Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street, and you're facing the nearby intersection.  Go forward and straight through the intersection.  At the next intersection you come to, turn left.  
On this new block you'll see a building with two big American flags on the left.  Go one short block to the next intersection (past the flags), and turn left again.
As you start on this new block, you'll see that the building on your right, on the corner, has red and orange stripes on the wall.  Go forward until you reach an intersection.  Move into the intersection, and stop right in the middle of it.  Turn to your right and find a row of white tents down the center of the street.  The bear is on the top (tip) of the tent closest to you.  Face the same direction as the other vehicles and move straight to the intersection. Turn right at the intersection. There should be a brown brick church looking building to your right. Move forward to the next intersection. At this intersection turn right again. Here there will be a building with arched windows on your right. Go straight until you pass the construction barricade on your left. At the intersection turn right. To your right will be 2 taxis and a green canopy with a word of a number. Go straight. when you can't go straight anymore there will be a yellow sign with an arrow to the right. The touchdown is on the sign. Turn around to go with traffic flow down to the next intersection and turn left. When you turn, there are trees on the right of this road you're about to go down but they have wooden frames around them to protect them from construction.

Go down this long block. When you nearly reach the corner, you will see a red building with red awning on the right side. Above the store awning there are red awnings over the windows. Touchdown is in the center of the awning on the last window nearest the intersection. Turn yourself so that you see orange construction cones on your right. Go straight down this road until you come to the first traffic light. Then make a left turn. You should see a red brick building with a black awning on your left. Go straight down this road. When you come to the first traffic light on this road, make another left turn. You should see a black bridge overpass in front of you. Go straight on this road. You will pass some orange construction barriers on your right. Up ahead there will be a building on your right with yellow trim and two yellow cones out in front of it. Also out in front you will see a gray fire hydrant with a silver top. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant.  Turn so you going with traffic down the street. At the intersection take right. Go down the street and take another right at the next intersection.  Stop at the next light. You will see some construction straight ahead. To your right is a smaller orange sign with an arrow on it that is on a post on the sidewalk. Touchdown is in front of this sign.  Begin moving with the flow of traffic, so the fenced in parking area is on your right. Turn left at the first intersection, and then there will be a market on your right with produce for sale outside. On your left are stands of flowers and plants for sale. 

At the next intersection, turn left again. This road you're on now will end and force you turn left, as there's a round building directly in front of you. Turn left and then look on your left for a gray sign trimmed in orange with white symbols.  There is a square logo on the left end of that sign that is black, white, and orange. Touchdown is right in the middle of that square logo on the awning.  Turn until you see water up on the left. Move forward, you will have no turns.
Keep going toward the bridge and go under the first one and continue forward.
You will see a white sign on the right of the road with letters and numbers on it. 
Touchdown is in the center of that sign. If you look around you should notice a two red lets with an & symbol between it. Walk in that direction passing the mini intersection. As you move forward you should pass a big screen TV. Keep on moving forward till you arrive at another intersection. At this intersection please make a left turn. Follow the road until you get to another intersection. Cross the intersection and stop when you pass the crosswalk at the other end. If you look around you should notice two mail box behind you on your right hand side. The touchdown is sitting on top of the left mailbox. Go with the flow of traffic.  Go to the first intersection and turn right.  There will be a green bike lane to your left.  
Go straight through one intersection.  You will also go straight when you encounter a three-way intersection.  Continue on.  There will be lots of shops along this street.  
At the next intersection there will be a green and white store on the right-hand corner up ahead.  Continue straight through this intersection as well.  Pass this green store.  You'll then see a black awning.  Pull up next to this awning (there will maybe be a bit white truck blocking your view of it) and stop.  
Turn 90 degrees to your left.  You'll see a blue door and a yellow window above it.  There's an air conditioner to the left of the yellow window.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this air conditioner, in the middle of the top.   Align yourself with the flow of traffic. Take a right at the intersection, and then the next right after that. Head down this street, and slightly pass the yellow building on your left. There should be an empty lot with cars parked in it, and to the left of that, a green machine with red lettering on top of it. Touchdown is sitting on top of the green machine. Go with traffic.
Keep straight at the first intersection.
Turn right at the next intersection. Green scaffolding to the left.
Keep straight at the left turn only. More green scaffolding to the left.
Enter the next intersection and stop. 
Look right, there will be a gray trash can and yellow news paper box on the corner. Touchdown is sitting on the opening of the gray trash can.



 Go against traffic and turn left. Go to the light and then come back the way you came, but in the lane where you're with traffic.  You should have the very red brick building on your left and be standing at the point of the white triangular pavement marking.  Straight ahead of you should be a pole with yellow upward pointing arrows on black. Touchdown is atop that. Go with the flow of traffic.  Go to the intersection and turn left.  There will be a bright yellow building on your left.  Go to the next intersection and turn left again.  The yellow building will continue to be on your left.  It has a bright red corner.  Head down this street, watching for the end of the yellow building.  Stop when you reach the end of it.  Slightly ahead of you on the right is a light pole with a huge sign that is green on the top, white in the middle and red on the bottom.  Touchdown is in the middle of the red part of this sign.   Orient yourself so that you are looking towards the planters with flowers and the building with columns is behind you on the left.  Go straight, you should pass a yellow truck on your left that is making deliveries, then you are going the right way. At the first intersection, take a right. Go all the way down until you're almost at the intersection.  You will see a flower stand on the left.  Touchdown is hiding at the bottom of the glass door before the flower display starts and under the name of the market on the awning. Orient yourself so you are facing the building with the three small red billboards and the large area that is painted blue. Go left and reorient yourself so you are facing with love traffic with the scaffolding on your right and the orange food stand on  the sidewalk to your left. Continue moving forward going straight past the next intersection. When you reach the next intersection after that take a left. You should now have a bank on your right and a green storefront to your left. Continue moving forward  to the next intersection and go straight. There will be a hardware store with a green awning on your left. Go forward a bit until you're in line with the store that is just ahead of the hardware store. Turn slightly right and you'll see the circular bike rack in the sidewalk. Touchdown sitting at the base of the bike rack. Turn yourself so the median with the metal fence and garden is on your left and start down the street with traffic.Turn right at intersection.  You will see construction scaffolding on your left and a blue and white canopy on your right.  Turn right at intersection.  You will see some trees to your right and a red banner on your left.  As you near the intersection, you will see a red sign on your left.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the red sign. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Follow the road as it winds its way to an intersection.  You want to turn left at it.
After you do, you should see scaffolding on your right.
Turn left at the next intersection and you will have blue scaffolding on the right.
Move down this road until you reach a brick building with a green awning, red fire escapes, and white security coverings on the lower floor windows.

Touchdown is in the middle of the green awning. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  The barriers will be on your right.
Head forward past the barriers and stop in the crosswalk on the near side of the first crosswalk you come to.
There's a sign in front of you on the right that has an arrow on it.  Below that is a larger white and black sign that Touchdown is hiding on. Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Go forward to the intersection, and turn left. Go to the next intersection and go left. Then continue straight for awhile. You'll pass a green wall/fence with a bit of graffiti on your right, and then a similar wall on your left. 
As another intersection is coming up, on your right will be a black sign hanging next to a building, with white writing and a small pink circle. Touchdown is on the pink circle. Go with the flow of traffic and  the potted plants to your left.  At this stop sign turn right.  At the next stop sign, turn right again.  You'll have a red building to your right and a fence to your left. 

There will be a street to your right ahead, turn right there.  There will be a grey building on your right.  When you get close to the end of the block, you'll see some construction barriers on the sidewalk on your right.  There's a green set of  doors to the right of those construction barriers.  Touchdown is on the doormat leaning up against the center of those doors.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic. There will be two bright blue awnings next to one another on your right and just ahead on your left is a business with a red awning and rainbow colors in the window. At the intersection just ahead of you, turn left. 

After you turn, there will be a red brick building on your left with a green awning with white lettering. You're going to stay straight all the way to the next intersection. When you pass a playground with bright blue fencing on your left, you're halfway there. 

When you get to the intersection, stop before it at the crosswalk. Look at the traffic light pole to your right on the corner. There is a small red sign on it with white writing. Touchdown is waiting for you on that red sign.  Go in the same direction as traffic, with the red lane to the right of you. Go left at the 3 way intersection ahead. There is a wildlife mural with animals on the building to your left. Go left at the next intersection. At the following intersection, stop in the middle. In front of you on the left there are white poles in the street with gray stripes. Touchdown is on top of the one on the corner closest to you.  Hello. Please orient yourself with the flow of traffic. You will see a green and yellow flag to your left with a blue diagonal stripe. To your right, there is scaffolding with green awning.

Go straight to the first intersection. Turn right. Continue straight a short distance to the next intersection. Turn right again. 

You will see a silver store with a red awning that has two stars on it with white letters to your left. Go straight down this long path. Up ahead on your left, you will see a green wall with orange and white construction barriers. Slow down here. Please stop when you are standing flush and equal with the end of the barriers to your left.

Look ahead to your right. There is a single orange construction barrier. Touchdown will be in the middle between the two holes. Good luck! Stand facing the one way street, with the white building on your left, go forward and make a left, when you see the multi-colored fence. Follow that fence down the street, passing the brown building and heading toward the overpass. Go under the overpass and make a left at that intersection, with the bridge now on your left. Stop when you pass the two red signs on either side of you and look to your left. Touchdown will be on the yellow diamond sign that is on the silver pole closest to you. Turn so the median is to your left and you are facing a lighted intersection. Go straight through the light. Head straight to the next light. Take a right. There will be a store with a beige sign with red letters on your right. Ahead at the next intersection take a right. There will be a subway entrance on both side of you. Go straight until the next small three way intersection. Touchdown is sitting in front of the ac unit you see sticking out of the dark brown lower floor of the building to your left.  Face the flow of traffic and go into the tunnel.  Go left when you have to.  You'll go into a different tunnel.  Backup from here.  At your first opportunity to go right, do it and you'll be back outside the original tunnel but on the other side of the road.

Backup some more.  Backup until you are given more options, with a silver car in front of you and a green sign on top of a yellow sign.  Go forward now.  You should be going against traffic.  When you get the intersection with two buses ahead on the left, veer left and then turn left when next to the buses.

In the next intersection you should see a bus on the right and a trash can.  Behind the can is an orange cone.

Touchdown is on the cone. Position yourself so the long wooden park benches are on your left and you're going with the flow of traffic. Go straight through the first intersection. The road is going to split at the second intersection, and you'll want to veer towards the left. It's not a full turn, but merely a fork in the road. There will still be benches on your left along with a table and chairs with a blue umbrella at the split. Go straight through the next intersection. Now, you'll see tables with blue umbrellas on your right.

At the next intersection you get to, turn left. There will now be scaffolding on your right after you have turned. Right before you get to a parking garage on your left, you will see a green trash bin next to a green pole with signs. Touchdown is on top of the trash bin. 
 Turn yourself until you see a red iron bridge directly in front of you and head toward the bridge.  At the intersection just before the bridge, turn right.  Travel down this road, the bridge should be on your left.  Turn right at next intersection.  Continue down this street, a small park should be on your left, behind a wire fence.  Continue past the small alley on the left.  You will pass a red entrance awning on your right.  Continue past some blue scaffolding on your right.  As you enter the next intersection look for two yellow poles in the median on your left.  Head toward that and Touchdown is sitting on the sidewalk between the two poles. Hello, please orient yourself facing the flow of traffic. There will be two green mailboxes on your left side with white graffiti on them. Go straight down this road for a while. You will pass orange and white construction barricades on your right side as you continue heading this way. Keep going until you reach the first intersection. Turn right. Go straight down this road for a little bit. You'll see another intersection ahead. Stop before you reach the intersection. On your right will be a long white bus with a blue stripe going across the side of it. To your left will be a colorful food stand. Face towards the right where the white bus is parked. To the right of the white bus is a white bench with three seat spaces on it. Click the middle back of the bench to find the touchdown. Good luck! Align yourself so the lit up ads are immediately on your left. Head out of the tunnel and keep right. Once you reach the intersection, make a right. Take note of the first hydrant as you make the turn. Touchdown will be on the second hydrant with two silver poles, on the tip of the hydrant. The hydrant is close to a red call box. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Turn left at the next intersection.  You'll see a light blue thing ahead with neon letters on top of it.  Go forward past it.  Ahead a bit on your right you'll see trees with lights all over them.
Turn left at the next intersection just past the trees.  Step forward out of the intersection and turn right.  You'll see on a small barrier two green dots and two yellow dots.  Touchdown is on the yellow dots.
 Follow traffic and go straight through the intersection. You'll pass some fenced in basketball courts on your right. When you reach the next intersection after those, go right.  At the end of that block, go right again.

You should see a black fence with many bushes in front of the building on your left, and on your right, a red brick building with a prominent overhang over its doors.

Walk until you pass the last tree on the sidewalk on the left, which is inside a foot-high fence, and you're standing directly in front of the first of three white arched windows.  If you look at the black fence in front of the window, you'll see there's a small gate on the left, and to the right of the gate, a square black sign with white letters.

Touchdown is affixed to the center of the sign. Follow traffic through the light you're at as well as the next two, and then go right.  To your left will be an all blue building followed by a white building with brown doors.  Stop just after it and rotate left to face the grey overhead door in brick.  There's a light on the white wall just to the left of the red brick.

Touchdown is atop the light on the white building to the right of the window and left of the red brick building next on the right. Position yourself so you are traffic is coming at you. The bridge will be on your right. You'll soon have fenced in basketball courts on your left. Walk past those. You will then see two large orange port-a-potties on your left behind a red fence. Touchdown is sitting on the top of the one that is closest to the fence.  Turn and follow the flow of traffic.  Take your first left, then the next left.  On the left will be barricades.  Then a break with a green wall, and then more barricades.  Stop in the middle of the green wall.  Look back behind you.  There is a small manhole on the ground between the white lines.  The bear is on it. Turn so you are facing the intersection right next to you and move forward, immediately turning left at this intersection.  This should put a green awning on your left and brick buildings on both sides.  Head straight down this road.  You will move unexpectedly twice, just keep going forward.  You will pass blue fencing on the left.  Turn left at the upcoming intersection which will put black awnings off to your left.

Head forward to the next intersection and stop at the far crosswalk. To your left is a small median with some plants on it.  Touchdown is hiding on a trashcan on this median with plants on it.
 Orient yourself so that there is a pizza place on your right and a smoke/tobacco store to your left. Go straight and make a right at the first intersection. Go straight and make another right at the next intersection. There will be graffiti on the building on the right hand side. Not far from this there will be a dry cleaning store on the left with a black bench in front of it. The touchdown is located in the middle of the black bench. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, and head up to the intersection. You should see subway entrances on either side as you make a right turn. Head to the next intersection, and make one left. To your left under the scaffolding next to the pedestrian lights, you should see a striped parking meter. Touchdown is on top of the meter. Turn and go in the direction with the traffic. Turn left at intersection. Brown and white awnings to the right. Turn left at intersection. Orange and white barricades to the left.You will pass 2 sections of scaffolding to the right. When you get to the end of the last scaffolding you will see a blue door. Touchdown is sitting in middle of door on the ground. Turn so you'll be going with the flow of traffic.  Go to the first intersection and turn left.  Go one short block and make a left at the next intersection.  Pass the parking lot on your left.  You'll also pass two brown garage doors on the left.  Just past the garage doors is a black awning with a red stripe (awning out over the sidewalk).  Stop when you're even with the end of this awning. Just beyond the car parked on your left is a trash can (you can see the top of it).  The bear is on top of the trash can. Stand with the concrete building with black fence to your left, and step into the intersection. Take a right turn, passing a green awning on your right, followed by bright green dumpsters. At the next intersection, turn right again.

Now pass on your right a bright red storefront, across from windows with neon pink lights on your left. Continue until the next intersection. Stop in the center of it. Face ahead and to your left is a gray trash can. Touchdown is on top of the trash can. Align yourself so the scaffolding is on your left, and head up to the intersection, to make a right. The script red lettering store should be on your left now. Head up to the next intersection and stop there.

Look to your right under the scaffolding, there should be 3 green boxes connected to each other to the right of a green trash can. Touchdown is sitting on top of the green trash can. Follow the flow of traffic with the staircase to your left and make a left at the first intersection. There will now be green, squared logos on the building to your right. Continue past it and follow the white/orange barriers down the street on your left, make a left at the traffic light and quickly stop. Touchdown will be on the traffic cone that is near the crosswalk on your right. Stand facing the direction of traffic. There will be a building with blue awnings on the left. Move up to the first intersection and make a left. Follow down the long block. You'll go through the intersection. Part way down the second block you'll see construction scaffolding with a green roof. Just as you pass the start of it, you'll see a blue scissors lift with traffic cones marking it off. Touchdown is on the left side of the platform of the lift. Align yourself with traffic and walk forward. Take a left at the four way intersection. Walk forward down this road. Walk past the three way intersection undergoing construction. Walk to the four way intersection. There will be a pole next to three trash cans in front of you. Touchdown is on the far right trash can. Orient yourself with the flow of traffic. There will be scaffolding to your left and an orange building to your right. Go straight. At the FOURTH intersection turn left.

There will be a row of blue bikes on your right side. Go straight and stop in the middle of the next intersection. 

There is a bright red pole on the right side of the road. The touch down is sitting on top of the pole. Turn so there is a parked pale yellow bus on your left. Head down this street to the first intersection. Take a left. At the very next intersection take another left. Head down this street. You should see 2 orange buses parked on the right side of the road. Head down this street until you come to the first intersection. Stop at the intersection. There is a yellow square object on the ground behind a black car on the right side of the road. Touchdown is sitting on top of the yellow object. Follow traffic through the intersection. At the next intersection turn left. there will be orange barriers in the street on the left. Turn left at the intersection. There will be two food carts on your left. After that there is a white van parked on the left, then an open garage with an orange cone in the corner.  Touchdown is in front of  the orange cone, turn and face the same direction as traffic and see the traffic light just ahead.

travel to the traffic light and turn left.

There is scaffolding to the right and green wall on the left.
Go straight ahead until the next traffic light.

At the traffic light turn left and go straight to the next intersection, where you will turn left yet again.

There is now scaffolds to the right and a food cart to the left, go straight ahead, keeping an eye to the right.

 Scaffolding to the right ends and you see orange/ white barriers on both sides
The third barrier on the right  (second white one) is where you will stop and look directly right
Touchdown is sitting atop the right edge of the first (right  most) white barrier







 Turn so the construction wall with the black and white map on it is on your right, and the T-intersection is at your back.  Move forward until you reach an intersection, and turn left.  
You'll now be facing an arched tunnel.  Move forward, and just before you get into the tunnel, you'll be able to turn - turn left here.  
You'll have a median strip with a black chain fence to your left, and you'll be under a large bridge.  Go forward to the T-intersection, and turn right. Stop immediately after your right turn (ignore the option to turn more).  On your left is a red/orange port-a-potty.  The bear is on top of the potty roof. On your left should be a gray brick building with brown doors. On your right should be a red brick building. Which has a parking garage.
Go straight into the first intersection and make a right. 
Take this straight to the next intersection and make another right.
Go straight until you reach the first intersection and make yet another right.
Once you turn the corner look on your right for a green mail box sitting beside a black trash can. Touchdown is sitting directly on top of the mail box.
 Go with traffic flow to the corner and turn right. 

Again, with traffic flow to the corner and turn right. 

Go down this road, past the fire escapes on the left, past the long yellow road block gate on the right, until you see what looks like scaffolding with a green top border on the right. There is a small playground between the scaffoldings. In front of the playground is a hydrant on the sidewalk. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant.  Hello there!

1. Turn to the left so that you're facing a tunnel between two buildings. There should be an orange diamond sign on the left and a yellow diamond sign on the right.

2. Move through the tunnel, passing through the next intersection that you come across. When you see that you're getting close to the next intersection, keep an eye on the right side of the street.

3. When you're directly to the left of the space between the two small trees next to the intersection, stop. You should see a door with an orange and black sign between the two trees. Touchdown is in the center of this sign.

Good luck! :) Turn and go down the street so that the green potted plants are to your left and the bike racks are to your right. Go straight through the upcoming intersection. You will be walking along a cement brick wall on your right. Heading uphill, enter the intersection at the top.  In the middle of the intersection, turn to face the right, and go ahead just to the other side of the street. Go right again. You will be going down the street that is parallel to the one you were just on. There is a clock and a wreath on the fancy wall directly ahead of you. Go straight toward it. Before getting to the end of the road, stop directly in front of a yellow sign with 2 black lines on it. The sign indicates a road that gets narrower. Touchdown is sitting right at the top of that sign.  Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. There should now be scaffolding with a dark green overhang to your right.

2. Move forward until you're almost at the intersection. Whenever you've just passed over the crosswalk and are now standing in the corner of the intersection, stop.

3. Turn to the right until you see a traffic light post. At the base of this post is a blue/violet sign with a humanoid figure in the center. Touchdown is in the very center of this sign, right on the figure.

Good luck! :) Walk with traffic to the intersection and go right. Go right again at the next one, and all the way to the end of the block, where you'll take another right.  Then, at the end of that block, take a right again.

You should see silver metal scaffolding in front of the building to your left, and a cream colored building with a ton of pillars ahead to your right.  Walk down the street until you see black metal fencing in front of a really weird rounded looking concrete building on your left.  Go just past it, so that you're staring at the doors of a white store with a mannequin in the window and three pipes below it, two black, and one red with yellow pipe caps.

Touchdown is directly between the two yellow pipe caps on the red pipe. Follow traffic down the street with the green awning to your right and grey steel overhead door with graffiti before the red awning on your left. At the second light go right.

Go straight through the next light, and stop on the crosswalk at the next one.  There'll be scaffolding on your right. Rotate left, and there's a yellow traffic box on a pole.  Touchdown is dead center of the flat black face of the traffic box. Make sure you are going with the flow of the traffic. Instantly take a right at the intersection. Follow the white van to the next intersection. You're going to take a right. Move forward until you can easily see the white truck on the left and the black service van on the right. Look right. You should see the bike and mailbox. And then the pole thing to the left of it. Click the middle of the blue band on the pole.  Follow traffic with the orange cones to the left and go to the light, and go right. Stop just before the steel metal overhead door after the last grated vent on the building on the right, before the windows with red stripes over them start. 

Touchdown is on the tall round black metal bollard on the right side of that door (closest to you) Align yourself so that the red lettered lit sign with missing light is on your left, slightly ahead. Turn in to the intersection with the flow of traffic, and head up this street to make a left at the first intersection.

You'll head down this street until a few steps after the parking signs on the left and right. On the right, there will be a potted plant in front of the glass doors under the metal awning. Touchdown is sitting in the bush of the pot. With the business with a yellow logo on your left, go forward into the intersection and turn right.  Go straight pass the other traffic until you have the scaffolding on your right hand side.  This is a very long block, you will go all the way to the next intersection.  Once at the intersection on the left hand side ahead, there will be a no left turn sign with a red circle on it.  Touchdown is on that sign. Orient yourself so the closest intersection is behind you.  Walk forward to the intersection in the distance and turn right.  You'll have to wiggle around until you're able to move forward again.  Go straight through the 3 way intersection.  At the next intersection, you'll have three yellow poles in front of you and you'll have to make a turn because the road ends at a park.  Turn left.  Go to the next intersection and turn left.  The tip of a triangular park is in front of you, make sure you go down the left side of the tip, keeping the park on your right.    Go straight through the first three way intersection and look on your right as you're waking down the street.  First you'll see a diamond yellow sign with a small square yellow sign below it.  Walk past it and look for the brighter yellow pentagon shaped sign that has two stick figures walking on it.  Touchdown is in the center of that sign.   Rotate to face the nearest intersection.

Move forward through the intersection without turning.

Proceed to the next intersection.
Move forward through the intersection

Proceed to the next intersection
Move forward through the intersection

Proceed to the next intersection
Stop at the intersection.

Rotate 180 degrees and return to the previous intersection you just passed through, for some reason.

Turn right at the intersection.

Proceed forward roughly 3/4 of a block. Looking to your right, you will see a number of planters along the sidewalk. The final planter is a brownish round planter with green plants, and a square metal access in the sidewalk is just beyond the planter. 

Stop as closely as you can to this final planter.

The bear is sitting on the small metal square access on the sidewalk near the planter. Hello. You will see you are standing in the middle of an intersection. Please orient yourself with the flow of traffic. You will see a white stone building with a flag as well as another flag up ahead on the left side. To your right side, there will be a long row of bushes and flowers along with some skinny trees.

Walk forward to the first 3-way intersection. Turn left.

There will be a long row of blue bicycles on your right side along with some scaffolding with green awning. Walk forward to the next 4-way intersection. You will see some red awnings on a red brick building to your left. Turn left again.

Continue straight on this path until you reach the next 4-way intersection. Move straight through the intersection ever so slightly from the 4-way but before you reach the opposite crosswalk. 

Please stop here and look to your left. You will be standing right next to an orange and white pole that has steam coming out of the top of it. It is next to orange and white construction barriers as well as orange mesh with wood fencing. There are also some orange signs with black arrows. There's another pole to the right but it has a black base.

Touchdown is at the top of the orange and white pole where the steam is coming out of the top. Good luck! position yourself so you are going with the traffic direction. Continue going straight (you may not see going forward arrow for a sec but just go to right then you will see it again). Keep going and an RV with a door on the back will be in front you. Pay attention to your left. First you will see some orange/white traffic cones in the middle of the road , then soon you will see an opening to change lanes. There is a street light pole on the median of the road there. There is a white sign with black arrow on the pole. The touchdown is on that sign.  move with traffic keeping the fenced playground on your left, there will be a red painted building on your left before the intersection, at the intersection take a left, the building with blue and orange colored awnings is on your right, you will see a bus stop, take a right to enter the loop after the bus stop, on this side street you will come to a red newspaper box on the left, on the right, on the fence is a poster with a woman face, the bear is on the face Follow the flow of traffic, with the scaffolding on your left and follow the orange cones on your left, passing more scaffolding on your right and coming to a stop at the traffic light. On your right, there will be a blue circle with a bus which is on a green pole. Touchdown is on the center of that blue circle. Turn so that the water is on your left. You will need to walk straight a long ways until you pass the white building on your right and pass the brick building. You should stop when you are standing right in front of the metal archway that has the two big green signs on it. 

Face right. 

You should see a metal light post with a small white box attached to it near the bottom. Touchdown is in the middle of the white box above the concrete barrier. Move into the intersection that you are so close to. Get turned so the road barriers are to your left and go straight. When you get to the first intersection, turn right. Once you have turned you'll see 3 square concrete planters on the right side. Go straight. You'll go past a long wall with a mural on it on the right side. There will be a small 3 way intersection with the road to the left. Keep going straight. You won't get to the end of this block. There is green scaffolding ahead on the left side. Keep going. On the right side is a building with arched door ways. Go just past that. You'll see a long awning that goes out to the street on the right side. Get yourself next to that then stop. On the right side where that awning is there is a tree with a little fence on each side. Touchdown is in the tree to the left of the awning at the bottom. Hello there!

1. Begin by turning to around until you're looking down the street. There should be a line of parked vehicles to your left now. Begin moving forward, passing through a three-way intersection. You've no choice but to head through the next intersection (you can't turn here).

2. Keep going straight for a little bit until you can take a left onto a parallel road. Move forward a little bit until you can see that you can turn around and begin moving down this road in the direction that you were just coming from. When you reorient yourself, you should see a large partition between the roads with a white and orange barrier at the bottom of it to your left. A line of parked cars should be to your right.

3. Move forward until you reach the four-way intersection that you had to pass through earlier, and take a left. When you reorient yourself, there should be two shops on either side of the street, both with red overhangs.

4. When you reach the next intersection, head straight through it and stop. You should be standing right in front of the crosswalk. There should be a shop with a colorful sign to the right and a large amount of scaffolding to the left. In front of the shop on the right, there should be a bike with a covered seat tied to the traffic pole. Touchdown is sitting on the seat.

Good luck! :) Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street. Go to the intersection just ahead of you, and turn left.   Now you'll have a restaurant with black awnings on your left and a couple of stores with yellow awnings ahead on the right.  Go all the way to the end of this block, and make a left at the intersection.  
Now you're on your target block.  You should have a tan building with narrow red vertical stripes on your right.  Go past the red food cart on your right, and stop when you're just past it.  Look back at the food truck, and find the bear on top of the umbrella. Orient yourself so that you are moving with the flow of traffic into that close intersection. At the intersection, turn left. Then continue straight, passing through the first (3-way) intersection. At the next intersection, turn left.

Go straight for awhile; you'll pass a 3-way intersection, then pass through a 4-way intersection. At the next 4-way intersection, before you cross through it, on the corner ahead and to your left are 2 trash cans. One has a green liner and one has a blue liner. Touchdown is in between them. Face the direction so the blue overhang is on the right and green scaffolding is on the left. Move forward toward the first intersection and make a right turn. Continue to move down this street and make another right turn at the next intersection. After you turn onto the street, the right side will have a few mini blue dumpsters. Move down this street and on the right side will be construction barriers. Pass by the pushed out barrier made sidewalk until you pass by a parking garage entrance on the left side. Once past that there is a grey post with a blue line around the top of it, it's beside a trashbin. The Touchdown is on top of this grey post with the blue strip near the top of the post. Face the same direction the cars are traveling and walk down to the first intersection.  At this intersection, make sure you are able to turn right.  Travel down the road to the right, following the flow of traffic.  To make sure you got the right road, there is a black building that has white and blue letters and a blue logo on it to your right (it's a bank).  Go down this road until the next intersection.  At this first intersection, turn to the right and go up the road with the flow of traffic.  Pass through 2 intersections and stop just before the third intersection.  Look across the street on your right, you should see a white sign with red lettering on a stand sitting on the ground at the corner of a building.  It has a light red and tan diamond and an ornate light above it.  Touchdown is on the white sign with red lettering. Orient yourself with traffic, proceed forward, and turn left at the light. Go straight through two more lights before turning left at the third. Stop on this road when you are nearly across from a jean advert. Touchdown is on the waist of the blue jeans. Go in the same direction as traffic. A clover on sign ahead on right. Go right at intersection. Go right again at next one. The building on your right has gold letters. Go straight. At the next intersection, go right and stop in front of the middle potted plants on your left. Touchdown is sitting at the very top of the white and blue sign to the left of it. Turn with the flow of traffic.  You will see a truck with an American flag on the back.  Move to the right so that you can follow it.  The truck will now be gone, but head down that road, follow the taxi instead.  When the taxi turns, go the other way (Turn right).  Head straight, go to the next intersection.  Turn left at the intersection. There is a car in the crosswalk with duct tape (Silver) on the bumper.  The bear is in the middle of the duct tape. orient yourself so that the  store with the green sign with white letters on your left and go straight down this road to the next intersection take a left and at the next intersection also take a left
this corner is a little weird but if you've done it right there will be a wire fence on your right with mesh over it and dumpsters behind the fence
continue straight down to the next intersection and take a left
about halfway down this road on the right, there will be an orange banner with a family on it up a little high stop just before this banner
now look on your left you should see a glowing red white and blue sign in the store window touchdown is sitting in the middle of that sign

 Go with traffic flow down this long block and turn right at the first corner you can.

Go one block and turn right. There is a piece of construction equipment to your right when you turn. Go down this road. 

There is a navy blue flag hanging on the left with what looks like a genie lantern in the center of it. Touchdown is on top of that lantern covering it up. Position yourself so the fenced in courts and bus stop are on your left. Go straight through that traffic light in front of you. You'll be go down this street for a while. There will be a bridge up ahead in the distance. At the next light, go straight again. There will be a dark red awning with white lettering and yellow symbols on your right. 

Next there will be a one way street on your left. Go past it. Your're now under the bridge. Look to your right and there is a brick building with green scaffolding in front of it. Near the corner of the building (right after that road you just passed) are four small white signs with red writing. Three are in a row and one is placed above them. Touchdown is waiting for you on that top sign.  Go with traffic flow to the next corner and turn left. 

Go down to almost the next corner. There is scaffolding on the left and red awnings on the right with gold lettering. As you face that building with the red awnings, there are round lights on the building. Touchdown is sitting on top of the light nearest the corner. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic such that you can see a national flag behind some trees on the left.
You should see scaffolding ahead on the left after the flag(s).
Go through the first intersection.
Turn right at the next intersection that has a lot of smoke/steam coming out of a manhole near some cones.
Go down this street and stop when you get into the next intersection.

Look down directly in front of you and you'll see a manhole cover.  Touchdown is on this manhole cover. Orient yourself so that you are moving with the flow of traffic (with the black fence and yellow posts to your left). Move ahead to the first intersection and turn right. Now you should have a building with black signs, white writing, and small green lines on your right side.

Move ahead to the next intersection, and turn right again. You should now have a building with red signs on your right, with several colorful newspaper boxes in front of it. Move ahead past that store and soon on your left is a building with light blue portions of wall. Stop here. There are 2 doorways with stairs leading to them, with plants in pots. Touchdown is on the left-most plant, in front of the left black door. Follow traffic down the street, where trees are only to your left, and go right at the first intersection, down a one-way street, where the first building on your right has vibrant blue painted blocks above it.

Walk until there's a building with a dark red banner with white lettering to your right and a blue construction trailer on your left.

If you walk just past that trailer, and turn to your left, you will see there's a dark grey mailbox in front of it.

Touchdown is sitting centered on top of the mailbox. Move with the flow of traffic to the first intersection, and turn right. After you turn, you'll see a red awning over flowers for sale on your right. Go straight through the first traffic light on this street and turn left at the second one. There will now be a business on your right with two-toned green signs. Look across the street at the buildings on your left. You'll see a curved black awning over a door. Right before that is three trash bins against the building. Two have lids, and one doesn't. Touchdown is sitting on top of the one without a lid.  Turn to move with traffic, there is an intersection right ahead, turn right here. there is a bright lit store with a yellow awning on your right, continue down this street, you will pass a building on your right with scaffolding. you will come to a 4 way intersection, take a right, the store on the left of the street will have a red awning, go to the next intersection, take a right, there is a store on your left with red outdoor seating and windows trimmed in yellow. On the second set of windows, in the middle at the bottom is a square sticker, the bear is on that sticker Turn and go in the direction with the traffic. Turn left at intersection. Light green awning to the right. Turn left at intersection. There is a park to the right. When you get to the bike parking  on the right. Touchdown is sitting on the seat of the first bike.  Turn so the tan building is on your left and big black building with trees and a grassy garden in front of it is to your right. Go down toward the water you see straight ahead. At that crossroad, turn right. You cannot go straight and you are turning with traffic flow when you go right. 

Go through the first corner you come to. When you get to the next corner, don't turn, but notice a green light pole to the front right of you. There is a green box on that pole that Touchdown is sitting on top of. Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that the white and orange construction barrier is on your left and a chain link fence surrounding a construction area is to your right.

2. When you reach the first intersection, take a left. A gas station with a green and white canopy should be to your right.

3. Take another left at the next intersection. Some blue bikes should be on the right. Follow this road for a while.

4. Keep an eye on the right for two forklifts--one pink and the other yellow-green. Stop when you're behind the pink one. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of its steering wheel.

Good luck! :) Orient yourself so that the two motorcycles are on your left (on in front of you and one behind. Continue forward and turn left at the first intersection. As you continue you will see construction on your left. Stop after you pass the construction and look to your right for a red building with a wooden door with glass and metal details. The touchdown is on the lantern to the right of the door. Orient yourself so that the diner is on your right and go forward.You will go through one intersection and stop before the second. Stop when you reach the end of a parking lot on your left. The touchdown is the right arrow on the sign on the parking booth.  Align yourself so that the large glass building with potted bushes is on your right. Head up to the intersection to make a left. head down this street until you encounter the next intersection to make another left.

Shortly in, align yourself with the scaffolding on the right, a very short one in front of a shop with a white sign on top of it. Touchdown is in the middle of the white sign to the right on the scaffolding. Move with the flow of traffic, with scaffolding on your right followed by red brick buildings. Pass straight through the 3-way intersection and at the 4-way intersection, take a left. Move forward to the next intersection and take another left. Now you should have a store with blue awning close ahead on your right, with 2 mailboxes in front of it. Pass this store and continue until on your left, you come to a food truck with 3 yellow and blue umbrellas. Touchdown is on top of the middle umbrella. Align yourself with the flow of traffic in your lane. There should be a blue and red bus stop sign to your right. Head straight through the first intersection, and take a right at the second. Head to just before the next intersection and there should be a mural of painted legs on your right. Touchdown is in the red part of the left shoe. Go with traffic to the light and go right.   Stop at the first window with a poster of a woman on the last building on the left of the block.   Touchdown is sitting on the first bush in the square grey planter ahead and to your left. Orient yourself so there is scaffolds to the left, and facing the same direction as traffic and travel straight down this long street passing a blue dumpster with blue netting about halfway to the next intersection.

When you arrive at the traffic light at this intersection Turn Left. There are now storefronts with green awnings all the way down this block to your right.

Travel to the traffic light just ahead and Turn left. There is now a store with pictures of food in the window just to the right,there is a round picture of a salad on one of them.
Travel just past this store and stop, rotate to the right and slightly behind you and find touchdown on the round salad picture. Turn to face the intersection, heading in the direction of traffic. There is a grey building with yellow and green hangings on the far right. Go strainght through this intersection, staying on the smaller side street. At the next intersection, turn left. Stop at the next intersection. On the near right corner is a blue mailbox and a small fruit stand. Touchdown is on the ground in front of the hydrant next to the fruit stand, Align yourself with the flow of traffic. Ignore the first two left turns, and continue to the first right at the intersection. You should see a cafe with one yellow umbrella to your left after making the turn.

Head down this road until you see a white building to your left, with some clothes out front and a SALE sign to their left. There should be a red bike sitting tied to the pole in front. Touchdown is sitting on the seat. Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic, and head to the nearest intersection.  Turn right, then take the next right.  Pass the street on the left, continue until the road ends.  Just before you enter the intersection look right.  There is a vendor with a yellow and orange umbrella.  The bear is on the top of the umbrella You will start off at an intersection. Move in the direction of traffic. Keep going straight, past the dumpster covered in a blue tarp. At the intersection, when there are four directions to choose from, turn left. Go straight. You will pass another green dumpster covered in a blue tarp. Continue straight through the intersection. Turn left at the next intersection. Pass the carts with trash bags hanging from them. You will see a fire hydrant on the right, next to a black van. TD Bear is at the base of the fire hydrant.  turn to move with traffic and take an immediate right at the intersection, you will pass a building with red doors, continue to the intersection, at this intersection rake a right, there will be a grocery store with many flowers outside for sale, go through the next intersection and stop, on the right side of the street is a green trash can, the bear is on the can Go with the flow of traffic just a bit. You will never reach an intersection.
In front of a theater on the left is a black hydrant with silver top. Touchdown is on top of that hydrant. Face the flow of traffic, and go forward until you reach the first intersection. Make a left at that intersection, and do down the street until you reach the next intersection. Make another left, and do down this street until you see a blue awning with white lettering on your left. Touchdown will be on the black lettering on the white background to the right of this awning. You want to be in the position where there is a green awning on your left and a red awning that is next to a black awning on your right. Head in that direction passing the awning till you arrive at the intersection. Once you pass the intersection there should be a path to your right next to a blue awning. Take that path. Once you take that path you should notice two green sign on your left and an air conditioner on your right. Head in that direction passing those two objects. Continue forward till you notice a van with some traffic cones. Don't go near it or pass the white van. You should notice a trash can on your left near the van. The touchdown is sitting on top of the trash can Turn to follow the direction of traffic and walk ahead through the small intersection.  Immediately arrive at a larger intersection, and go right. You should pass a yellow sign with people on it on your right, next to an orange porta pottie. Continue straight, through another intersection.  Pass by a building with a pumpkin by it's planters on your right, and take the next street on the left.  Standing at the entrance to the next small intersection, you will see paint all over the roads, and a green garbage can on the corner ahead to your right. Go down the road on the left.  See a red guitar in the window of the brick building on your right, and go to the edge of the next intersection.  Turn around and look back at the red guitar.  See Two blue garbage bins.  Touchdown is sitting on the one on the right. Face the bridge with the flow of traffic and the two diamond yellow signs with red octagons on them. Go through the first intersection to the second one. There is an orange and white striped barrel on the sidewalk to the left. Touchdown is on top of it. Orient yourself so you are facing the same way the traffic is moving, there is a glass store on your left and a restaurant with a subway stop in front of it on your left.  Walk down this street, passing all the famous theaters (one on your left has a white mask on the billboard), and get to the intersection.  At the intersection, turn right.  Walk forward, keeping the gated pedestrian walking area on your left, following the flow of traffic.  Walk forward into the next intersection and look directly up into the sky.  On your left side, you can just see light up numbers and a large pole behind it on top of the very tall very skinny building.  It's world famous for dropping a ball on New Years Eve.  The bear is the very top of the pole that the ball descends. Turn and face in the direction that puts the open green space to the right side. and a parked red minivan. Turn left when you reach the first intersection.  Pass through the first two lights.  At the third intersection. take a left. There will be scaffolding on the right corner after turning. On the right side of the road, there is a row of parked cars. Near the end of the scaffolding there are two motorbikes that are parked one covered and one not. The Touchdown is on the back seat of the red motorbike.  Orient yourself with traffic on the one way street. Continue straight through the first intersection. Before entering the second intersection, you'll be on a bridge with parked cars on your left. There is a street light at the far end of the bridge on the left. Touchdown is at the base of the light where it meets the stone wall.  Turn so the corner building with a pig on it's second story is on your left. Turn left at this intersection. Go left again at the next intersection. Approaching another intersection, notice the corner building ahead on the right with the brightly painted mural.  Go left here. After turning the corner, stop directly in front of the door on the building to the right, facing it. Touchdown is sitting on top of the black fire hydrant in front of you.  Align yourself with the flow of traffic. Make a left and  go down this smaller road. At the next intersection, make another left. Ignore the next intersection and go about halfway down to the next. On your left you should see a silver door, then a gold door, with a painting in the silver door shop window. Touchdown is in the left eye of the painting. Turn and follow the flow of traffic.  Take your first right, it is almost like a curve.  Then take the next right, the next right, and the next right.  Take a couple steps forward, and look left and slightly back.  There is a fire hydrant.  The bear is on top. Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street.  Go forward until you come to the nearby intersection, and turn right.  You'll have rounded green awnings over windows on your right side on this new block, then a doorway flanked by flags.  Go forward to the next intersection, and turn right again.  You'll have a fancy-looking building with flags on your right.  Go forward until you reach an intersection, and turn right again. The building on your left will have a wrought iron fence.  Then you'll pass a dumpster on your left.  After the dumpster look for a dark green mailbox on the left side.  Past the mailbox is a building with a gold overhang over the sidewalk.  There's an alley after that building.  When you're just past that alley, stop and look to your right.  You should be even with a home that has a stained wooden doorway and a fancy iron railing on the steps up to the door.  The bear is in the middle of the window of this door. With the blue benches to your right, go straight and take a left at the first intersection. Go straight past the small street intersections. Stop before the light. There is a tree very close to the street to the left. Touchdown is at the bottom of the trunk. Turn and face the same direction as the traffic, where the blue sign with yellow symbols are on your left, go forward and quickly make a right. The park will be on your left, follow it to the first intersection and make a right. Pass the purple awning on your right, continue forward until you reach the second intersection, with the blue awning on your right, make a right and quickly stop. Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant that is in front of the store with the blue awning on your right. Turn around to face with traffic, then go forward until reach an intersection with a hot dog cart on the corner to your right. Touchdown is on the shelf at the very left of the cart. From the starting position, face in the direction such that you are facing the same direction as traffic -- you'll see a traffic light very close to you. Turn right at that traffic light. You'll go down a narrow one-way street with cars parked on either side of you. Continue straight down this street for a while until you get to a traffic light. At the traffic light, turn right. You'll see a park with trees on your left. Move a short distance until you get to the first traffic light. At that light, turn right. After a short distance, you'll see a white sign on your right with fancy blue writing on it. It looks like it's the sign for a store. Touchdown is sitting on the first letter on that sign. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
You should see scaffolding ahead on the left.
Turn left at the next intersection.
You should see more scaffolding on the left.
Turn left at the next intersection. You should see a store with a black sign and an orange awning, which should be on your right once you make that turn.
Continue down until you get close to a bright orange storefront.  Before that is a white building with red trim on the first floor.  This has a green awning over the door.  Touchdown is on the green awning. GO WITH traffic and GO LEFT at the light. When you see the green brick building with red trim and doors ahead on the corner to your left on the other side of the intersection you arrive at, GO RIGHT.  STOP JUST after clearing the island with the white-capped bell-shaped bollards on either side.  

FIND Touchdown on the blue mailbox to the left of the private road straight ahead of you. Hello there!

1. Orient yourself to go with the flow of traffic. There should be a bus to your right and a delivery truck to your left. Begin moving forward.

2. Pass through the first intersection that you come across. When you reach the next intersection, take a right.

3. When you orient yourself to head down this street, there should be a building with rather large windows and an orange, horizontal stripe to your right. Begin moving forward until you reach the next intersection, and take another right.

4. Orient yourself to head down this road. To your right, there should now be a building with a long red sign stretches down the road. Begin moving forward until you're almost at the next intersection.

5. Stop when, on your immediate left, you see a black car behind a fence. Several feet behind this car, there should be a white, rectangular sign affixed to the fence. Touchdown is on the upper-left corner of this sign.

Good luck! :) Go with the flow of traffic through the first two intersections. At the third, turn left. When you turn there is a tan building with red awnings in arched windows on your left. Go down this road, passing scaffolding on the left, then a blue awning on the right. Further down on the left is a light red awning, then a blue one. Just after that blue awning on the left are some steps with metal railing. Touchdown is on the top of the 4 steps that are between that blue awning and another red awning.

 Turn so the building with all the bright red doors is on your right.  You'll have cars parked parking-lot style on your left.  Go forward until you reach an intersection, and turn right.  
Now you'll have a market with a green awning and flowers outside on your left.  Go forward, and go straight through two intersections.  
Now you're on a block with a nice big tree on the right side.  Pass the tree, and move forward to the next intersection.  Move into the intersection, and stop when you are at the point when you could choose to turn.  On the corner to your left is a green trash can with the panel at the bottom open.  The bear is on top of that trash can. Turn and go in the same direction as traffic. Go right at the intersection in front of you. There will be some lit up trees on your left, and a cart full of scarfs and hats for sale on your right.  Up ahead, at a red lit sign on the building to the right, you will see Christmas decorations on the storefront of that building as you get closer to it. Walk till you are standing in front of that decorated store, and turn to look at it. Touchdown is in the center hole of the wreath above the entrance.  Align yourself against the flow of traffic, with the scaffolding on your right. Head up to the intersection and make a left.

You should head all the way up this road to just before the next intersection. On your left will be a news stand under a black awning, in front of it to the right is an orange box for newspapers and letters. Touchdown is sitting on top of the orange box. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
You should see a bunch of black awnings on your left.
Head forward and turn left at the next intersection.  You will see a park on your right.  Go to the intersection past the park and turn left again.
You should see several small green awnings on your left.
Head down to the next intersection and make one final left turn.
About half-way down this block you will come to a trailer parked under green scaffolding.  On the side of the trailer is a large sign with red, white and blue on it.

Touchdown is in the middle of the long red line on this sign. Follow traffic flow all the way down to the first corner you come to and turn left. 

Follow traffic flow to the next corner and turn left. 

Follow traffic flow until you can see the barriers up ahead on your left come to an end. Up on the right there is a narrow light cream sign with black lettering above 3 small steps that have gold colored metal railing on either side. Touchdown is in the center of this sign. Turn so the construction is on your left and there is a painted wall on your right.  Follow this road, pass the first intersection that breaks off to the left, past the green construction and turn right.  You'll have a row of green awnings on your left now.  Follow this road to the next intersection and turn right.  Stop right in the opening of this street and look to the left.  There is a red light above some signs on the green wall.  Touchdown is sitting on that red light. So you're going to want to start with the flow of traffic. Instantly take a left at the intersection. You should see a white van on the left and a white sub on the right. Go all the way down until you see a white van on the right. Just past that and look right. There are 3 cones. Your touchdown will be the top of the very left one.  Repeat three times: Follow traffic to the light and go right. 
To your left will be a purple sign band with yellow text. To your right, a green building. Go to the light.  Stop on the crosswalk prior to entering the intersection. Rotate left.

There is a building with a funky brown bullseye pattern on the door of the left corner. There's also a single orange and white striped construction barrel, upon which Touchdown sits. Orient yourself with traffic and proceed. Go through the first intersection then turn left at the next light. Turn left at the next light as well. Stop when across from the first store with the red awning. A store nearby has a hand image on it, and Touchdown is on the tip of the thumb. Turn so the green squares are on your right.  Follow this road through the construction and turn left at the first intersection.  There should now be a green construction on your right and a tan building on your left.   Follow this road, watching the building on your left with the orange a white barriers near the bottom.  Close to the next intersection is a red door in the wall leading to the tan building.  Touchdown is sitting on the red dot above the yellow box on the right corner of that red door. Turn so scaffolding is ahead to your left. Take the left option there and go down this narrow road with orange barriers on the right. 

Keep following this road, going under 2 overpasses, then into a tunnel. As you enter the tunnel you will see an orange diamond sign up ahead to your left. Go past that. Go a very short ways, watching to the right as Touchdown is in the tunnel. There will be a white rectangular sign with black lettering on the right wall of the tunnel. Touchdown is centered in this sign between the two words on the sign. Turn around until you're facing with traffic, then go forward. Continue going straight, past the first intersection and the roadwork--it will likely be longer than you'd expect, but you're going the right way. Just in front of the next intersection, there will be subway entrances on either side of the road, and a colorful sign on an otherwise grey and brick building on your right. Touchdown is on top of the sign, in between the two lights. Orient yourself so you're looking at the closest intersection.  Go straight across the intersection and continue down this road.  Continue straight down the road, through two three-way intersections, and when you reach the four way intersection, turn right.  Walk forward towards the park that's in front of you.  When the road ends, you'll have to take a step to the left and then stop.  On the right side of the opening to the park is a large rectangular sign, a post, and then three smaller rectangular signs.  The middle sign has some blue graffiti on it.  Touchdown is in the middle of that graffiti-ed sign.   Go with traffic flow through the first corner. 

At the next corner, go left. 

At the next corner, go just through that one, then turn left right away at the next. When you turn, there is a fenced in construction area you will pass to your right with what looks like and orange and white striped chimney inside of the fenced in area. Go past this and down this road.

Do not turn at the first option where the red awning is on your right. Keep going. Do not turn right at the next option where there is a red awning on your left now. Keep going to the next corner and turn left there. When you turn a red brick building with a narrow purple awning is on your left. Go down this road until you see a green awning on your left that has a large blue sign with white lettering on the front. Touchdown is on the arch of that green awning on top of it. 

 Orient yourself so that you are facing that close intersection. Move forward into the intersection and go straight through it. At the next intersection, turn right (you first have to veer left but then will be able to make the right turn). Now you should have scaffolding on your right, and a small black fence around the building and grass on your left. Move ahead to the next intersection and turn right.

Now move to the next intersection and stop. On your right is a green trash can. Touchdown is on top of the trash can. Rotate to face the direction the parked cars are facing.
Proceed forward to the next intersection.
Turn right at the intersection

Proceed forward to the next intersection.
Move forward through the intersection

Proceed forward to the next intersection.
Turn right at the intersection

Proceed forward roughly half way to the next intersection.

As you move forward, look to your right. You will see three awnings in a row, blue, purple, and purple.
When you are standing facing the middle awning, stop, you have arrived.

In the window of the middle shop, you will see a large image of a human eye.
The bear is sitting in the middle of the image of the eye.


 Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
You should see scaffolding on both sides of you.
Stop just before the next intersection and turn right.
You should see some orange writing on the sidewalk.  
Look up and all the window frames should be gold.  In the middle is a red sign on a pole. Touchdown is on the red sign. Hello. Please orient yourself facing the intersection. You will be facing the same direction as the parked vehicles behind you.

Walk forward into the four-way intersection. Turn right.

There will be a green bicycle lane to your left. There will be a red bus lane to your right.

Go straight to the next four-way intersection. Turn right again.

You will see a black fire hydrant with two silver poles as well as several dark mailboxes to your right. There is a gray building with blue awning.

Walk forward on this long path until you reach the next four-way intersection. Turn right.

Go straight until you reach another four-way intersection. Please stop when you are in the center. Look to your right. There is a streetlight pole on the corner. Next to it, there will be a green mesh trashcan with a green bag inside it.

Touchdown will be on top of the trashcan. Good luck! Turn to follow traffic, and go right at the intersection, and go right again when you come to the next one. Follow this cramped one way street lined with trees until you see a flag pole sticking diagonally from a building, near a light pole. The touchdown is sitting on top of  the flagpole at the base of it. Go in the direction that will put the median to your left, and go straight through the intersection. At the next intersection make a right, You will have red brick building to your left and light colored building with black squares to your right. Go straight to the next intersection and make another right, you will now have a temporary construction walkway on your left. You will stop before reaching the next intersection, there will be to the right before the intersection a red and white street sign. Stop at the red and white and street sign and touchdown will be in the center of it.  From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  The scaffolding should be on your right.  Move forward and stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to.  

Turn to your right and look down a wide one-way road with a shop with red cursive letters on the right and a shop with a blue stripe and red swoosh logo on the left.  Walk down the wide street between these two shops.  

Stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to, and turn to your right.  You should now be looking down a narrow street with a red/maroon shop sign with light yellow lettering on the left, and a shop with neon green lettering on the right.  Walk down the narrow road between these two shops.  

Pass a green banner with a palm tree on your right, and keep moving straight forward.  You will soon see a black flag with an orange logo hanging down over a blue and orange shop front.  
Walk forward a bit further, and stop between some construction barriers.on both sides of the street.  Turn to your right and look for some posters on a green wall.  There is a poster that has white lettering over a black and white photo of a man.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the green wall, right above that man's head. Turn yourself so you see the large red awning and several small red awnings on your right and start down the street.  Turn left at intersection.  You will see a parking area on your left as you approach the next intersection.  Go straight through that intersection.  You will pass a bike parking area on your left. Just past the bike parking area you will see an area barricaded off covered in blue tarp.  Touchdown is sitting at the end wall of the barrier on top of a blue covered portion. Go in the direction of traffic, placing the nearest intersection behind you. Go right at the intersection, then right again at the next one. Stop after turning and face the sidewalk on your right. Place yourself so the red square post is just ahead of you to the right, with a garbage can to the left of it. Touchdown is on top of that red post.  Go with traffic to the light and go right. Stop when you're standing on the crosswalk, with the hydrant to your right.  Rotate left, and directly in front of you is a blue mailbox. Touchdown is atop it. Stand so you are moving with traffic. Move straight to the intersection and turn right. Continue to the next intersection and turn right again. Move straight for awhile (you won't pass anymore intersections). You'll pass a large parking garage on the right. Continue until you see a large green shamrock on your right. In front of the shamrock are 3 blue flags. Touchdown is on the flag farthest ahead. Orient yourself so that you are moving with the flow of traffic, passing brick on your left with 2 blue doors. Continue until you reach the next intersection, where you will turn left. After turning, on your right is a row of green awnings. Continue to the next light, and turn left down this smaller road. Soon on your left is a big green dumpster. Stop before reaching it. Touchdown is on the center of the side of the dumpster that you are facing. Begin moving with traffic down this one way street. It's a very long block. When you get to the first traffic light, turn left. After you turn there will be a green awning and flowers for sale on the corner on your left and an orange bike against a sign pole on your right. 

Go to the next intersection and turn left again. Now, there are holiday lights on your left and a red newspaper stand next to a fire hydrant up ahead on your right. Go past them. There will be an entrance to a parking garage on your left. Just after that is a green dumpster on wheels in the street on your left. Touchdown is sitting on the top corner of the dumpster closest to you.  Position yourself so the public space with a monument and potted plants is on your right. You'll be facing oncoming traffic and an intersection. Turn left at that intersection. After you turn, a food vendor with red and yellow umbrellas will be on your right. 

You're going to follow this road for a while. When you reach a large paid parking lot on your right, you're about halfway to the next intersection. Soon after, there will be a row of rental bikes on your left. Just keep going straight.

When you arrive at the first intersection, you'll turn right.  Just up ahead on the left, you'll see a business with a white sign and red lettering. It also has a dark red banner up above the white sign. In the window is a bright sign that lights up. Touchdown is on that lit sign.  Go in the same direction as traffic.  Move forward to the first intersection.  Turn left.  There will be a store with a maroon awning on your left.  Go down this street to the next intersection.  Turn left.  There will be a green awning on your right this time.  Head down this street. You'll pass lots of different store fronts.  When you see the bright yellow traffic sign with people on it to your right, stop just after you pass this sign.  Turn to your left.  You will see a neon green clothes hanger in the window of a shop.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the hook part of the hanger.  turn so you are facing traffic and go with the traffic to the 1st intersection. Turn right at the intersection, there will be a large red brick building to your left, continue down that street. At the next intersection take another right, you will know your going the right way if a red brick building with green store fronts are to your left. Continue down this street until you see a dumpster to your right. There is a sign in front of a pink building, the touchdown is on the middle of the sign pole Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the pallets on the left side of the road, Continue straight until you reach the next intersection and take a right, You should see a building with the green awning on the right and a white sign that has a red, a green, and an orange stripe, Continue forward until you reach the next intersection and go straight, You should see some scaffolding on the left side of the road, stop when you have reached the end of the scaffolding, Turn to the right and you will see a building with a red awning and a sign in front of it, click the bottom left corner of the red awning to find touchdown. Stand with the scaffolding with neon letters to your right and adjust yourself so that you are on the right lane closest to that scaffolding. Move forward, passing the scaffolding with the neon letters, passing the glass building to your left with the black sign and white letters, going through the first traffic light and making a left turn at the second. There will now be a green storefront to your left and a red strip with blue letter on the building to your right. Go down this street and stop before reaching the second intersection. There will be a small alley to your left side and a gated fence on your right side. Near the gated fence on your right, there is a reddish brown building with four awnings. Two are red and are closer to the intersection and two are a lighter shade of brown which are closer to you. Touchdown will be on the part where the name is on the lighter brown awning nearest to you. Turn so you are facing a stop sign and begin moving straight. 
Continue straight until you reach an intersection with a stop sign. 
Turn right. Turn yourself so you facing the flow of traffic. 
Continue straight, passing through a light. 
After you go through the light, you will begin passing a median with trees. At the end of this median, there is a tree shorter than the others, it is the very last tree. Touchdown is sitting at the base of this tree.  Align yourself so that the black striped awning is on your direct left. Head up to the intersection with the flow of traffic to make a left. Go in to the next intersection, and stop a step after. On your right, you should see two green trash bins. Touchdown is sitting on top of the right one, closest to the red pads on the ground. Orient yourself with the flow of traffic. Go forward. At the first intersection, turn left. Go forward. At the next intersection, turn left after passing a store with many rainbow flags. Go forward. Go pass a building on either side of street with visible fire escapes. On the left side of the street, you should see a red canopy with numeric address. Touchdown is at the bottom of the door under the canopy. Orient yourself with traffic and proceed. Turn right at the light and then turn right at the next light too. Stop when even with the door of the first building on your left. To the right of the door and up a floor is a small balcony. Touchdown is on the balcony. Turn until the red doors are on your left. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left. There should be construction barriers on your right. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left. You should see a green subway entrance on the corner in front of you to the left. Walk forward until you are next to the brick house with vines around its windows. They should be on your left. Touchdown is in the white flowers in the pot to the right of the vines on top of the steps. Turn and face the direction so there is a scaffolding on the right side of the street and there will be a  street heading left on the left side.  You will want to turn left down this street. There will be a wrought iron fence on the left side and blue scaffolding on the right side. 

Go farward to the stop signs and turn left at this intersection. The wrought iron fence will be on the left side still.  Continue straight and pass by a road going right on the right side. At the next T intersection, there will be a green awning that extends to a sidewalk at this intersection. Take a left turn here. Proceed straight until you get to the intersection and stop signs, turn left again. The wrought iron fence and green space are on the left still. Go forward until you reach the first tree on the sidewalk on the right side, There are yellow/orange plants surrounding the base of the tree. The Touchdown is on the base of the tree that is facing the street.  With the green walls on your left and blue storefront on your right, move toward the nearest intersection and stop before passing it. On your left, at the crosswalk, there will be an orange newspaper box. Touchdown is on top of it. Go with the flow of traffic until you reach the intersection, and turn left (you will see a store with green overhangs on your left). Go forward through the next intersection. There should be scaffolding to your left. Proceed forward, but before you come to the next intersection, stop so that directly to your right is the last red overhang.  The touchdown is in the center of the circle within the circle symbol on that overhang. Start by making sure that you have entrance to the parking to your right. Go forward towards the intersection. As you go you will pass some construction work to your left. When you reach the traffic lights, turn left and go forward. Again turn left at the intersection and keep going straight. Eventually you will reach some construction to your right. Keep going along the chain fence to your right. A few steps before it ends you will have a building from brown brick to your left. Touchdown is sitting on the in the middle of the scaffolding to your right where the metal bars form a type of cross. There are cardboard boxes below it. Stand so you are moving with traffic. Pass the long row of blue bikes on your left. At that first intersection, turn left. Now pass the gold awning on your left, followed by a row of flags. At the next intersection, take another left. Now you will be on a more narrow road, with green scaffolding on the left. Move past the stretch of scaffolding, and continue until you get close to the next intersection. On your right is a store with a bright green sign sticking out of the awning. Touchdown is in the center of the sign. Starting out , there should be a big green wall on your left, and a small area enclosed by a low black iron fence on your right.  Go straight through the first intersection you come to. Before you reach the next intersection, you will see a blue door with graffiti on it on your left.  There are some yellow numbers over the top of the blue door.  Touchdown is in between the second and third numbers. Go with the flow of traffic down this fairly long block and turn right at the first corner you come to.

Go up to the next  corner, just before the crosswalk. 

Turn to your left and there is a plant that Touchdown is on top of that's planted in the median just before the bike path. Follow the flow of traffic with the black awning on your left and make a right at the first intersection. Go forward with traffic, passing the bus stop and two flags on your right and make a right at the first intersection. Continue down the street, passing the dumpster on the left and stop before reaching the scaffolding on your right that is above the brown awnings. Touchdown will be on your right, in the center of the logo on the bigger brown awning above the store windows. Go with traffic in the direction of the green scaffolding to the right.  Turn right at the first intersection. Go straight at the next intersection, construction will be on your left. Turn right at the next intersection. Enter the next intersection and stop before crossing over the crosswalk going straight.  To your left is a fire hydrant. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant. Orient yourself to travel down the road with the traffic.  At the first intersection, turn left.  Go straight down this street, through the first intersection until you reach the second intersection.  Fully enter the second intersection until you can turn left.  Travel up this road, looking for a gap between two buildings on your right that has a black fence with red and orange flames painted on it.  The fence has a red circle on it with a black space in the middle.  Touchdown is in the black circle space. Enter the intersection and go right. There is a green bike lane along the right side of the street. Go right again at the next 2 intersections. There will be a green brick building ahead on your right, with red awnings. After this building, go right again.  You are on a cobblestone street with flower planters on the right side. Stop in front of the green construction wall ahead on your left. Touchdown is in the middle of the diamond shaped yellow sign on this wall.  Orient yourself so that you are facing the direction of traffic when the orange and white construction barrier is to your left. and the building with the green overhead is on your right. Walk straight to the first intersection.

At this intersection you should see a large building with many glass windows across the street in front of you. You will turn left here, but you will perform a U-turn so that you are on the other side of the street you were on before, but on the opposite side. 

When you are oriented correctly, you will see the orange and white construction barrier to your left, and a building with a blue awning and white writing to your right. Walk straight down this road to the next turn on your left.  You should see a pink banner with a white object on it on a lamp post on your right. 

You'll turn left here, but like before, you will perform another U-turn so that you are on the same street again, facing the opposite way. When you are facing the correct way, you should see orange and white construction barrels to your left, and a red building to your right. 

Walk straight a step or two. On the red building to your right, you should see a red rectangle near the bottom of the building. Touchdown is on this red rectangle. 



 Go LEFT with traffic: the long black awning with white letters and glyphs will be to your left. Go LEFT at the next light and to the end of that block.  As you approach the end, you will be teleported to a tunnel, but don't be alarmed by this. Instead, keep moving forward, past the steel grate in the road. STOP.  Look forward. A row of orange bollards with two grey stripes extends out in front of you on your right.
FIND Touchdown impaled on the last one (furthest away) from you. Turn so you are facing the bridge and turn right as soon as you can after you pass under it.  There will be a tan brick building on your left and a cement wall on your right now.  Follow this road under the two bridges ahead, pass through the intersection and keep going until you see a building with red doors on your right.  Stop next to the last red door.  Blocking the second last red door is a clay flower pot.  Touchdown is sitting in the middle of that pot, on top, like he is planted in it. Orient yourself so a fence is on your left. Proceed. At the light, turn right. Stop just before the intersection of the next light. Touchdown is on the green box attached to the traffic light pole ahead and to the left. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.

Head forward to the intersection.  You'll see green scaffolding on the corner to your left.  Turn left so the scaffolding is on your right.

Go forward to the next intersection, just past where the scaffolding ends.  Turn left again. You should have a bright red building on your left with a store on the corner that has a black awning/sign.

Go down this street, past the first set of scaffolds and about 2/3rds into the second set of scaffolds.  You'll notice on your left is a glass building with black signs topped by orange.  Between those signs there's a stand with some kind of notice under glass by the doors.  Touchdown is on paper in the middle under that glass.
 Go with the flow of traffic. The road curves. Stay to the right and go through the tunnel. When you come out of the tunnel you will see a traffic light. Before the traffic light you will see a yellow sign. Get next to the sign and Touchdown is on the first letter of that sign.  Turn so the bridge is on your right and walk until you see a black iron wrought fence on your right. (NOT the one on your left, which encloses a basketball court.)  The touchdown is sitting on top of the first pole of the fence. Position yourself so you are facing the intersection directly in front of you and there are flowers for sale on your left. Step into the intersection and turn left. There will now be a red building with four flags on your left. 

At the next intersection, turn left again. Some white holiday lights and scaffolding will be on your left after you turn. Continue straight until you see a row of blue rental bikes on your right. Just after that is a fire hydrant in front of the entrance to a parking garage. Touchdown is sitting at the very top of the fire hydrant.  Orient yourself so that you are moving with traffic and the blue awning is behind you on your left. Pass straight through this first intersection and at the second, turn right. Now on your left is scaffolding and on your right is a building with boarded windows. Continue down this street. At the first intersection, continue straight, passing the bright yellow store awning on your right. At the next intersection, turn right. Now move ahead until you are almost at the next intersection. On your right corner is a green trash can. Touchdown is on top of it. Face in the direction where the first building on your left has blue awnings on the windows.  Move forward to the first intersection and turn left.  You will pass a building on your left with scaffolding covering the sidewalk, then a building on the right with arch shaped windows and three banners hanging outside.  Go to the next building on the right.  Above the doorway is a window with several human statues.  One in the middle has an arm reaching up -- touchdown is on that arm. Orient yourself so you are moving with traffic and facing the closest intersection, there are red awnings to the right.
Travel straight through this intersection  and down this one way street until you reach the traffic light
At the traffic light turn left into oncoming traffic and proceed to the next intersection and turn left again.
There is now a light colored building to your right and a long green awning ahead and to the right.
Move ahead until you are just past this awning and rotate right, there will be a orange and white traffic cone in front of you and Touchdown is on top of it
 Face in the same direction as the traffic, with the orange/white cones on your left and the yellow/black signs on your right. Move forward, passing under the first overpass, making sure to get on the right lane and follow the tunnel back outside. Pass the first yellow, diamond sign and stop before passing the two yellow, diamond signs on each side of you. Touchdown is on the right, in the center of the diamond sign. Turn with the flow of traffic and head to the nearest intersection.  Then turn left. Then take the next left.   You should see a dragon in the sky now.  Take the next left.  Stop just before you enter the next intersection.  There should be a purple shape on your left, stop when you are standing next ti it.  There is a bike with something red covering the seat.  The bear is on the seat.   From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing a narrow street with parked cars on both sides and a bike lane.  Walk down this street.  You will soon pass orange and white construction barriers on both sides.

Keep walking, and then stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to.  Turn to your left so that you see a wide road.  On the left should be a shop with dark, arch-shaped signs with white lettering.  On the right, there should be an American flag hanging down from a building.  

Walk up the street between these two buildings, and stop in the middle of the next intersection.  Turn to your left and you should see a small orange sign on the sidewalk, and a yellow truck parked on the right. 

Walk up this street, but the map gets tricky here.  Step to your right toward the shop with black borders and black lettering and then go forward.  That shop with the black borders should stay on your right.  Now just walk forward.  You will pass some scaffolding with a green awning on your right, and on your left, you should see some orange and yellow lettering.  

Ahead of you, on your right, you should see a red/maroon awning over a door.  Touchdown the Bear is sitting right on top of this awning, on the tip of the triangle. Turn yourself so you have green awnings to your right and a large outdoor area on the left with wooden chairs.  You want to go down this street, but you may need to move so you can.
Turn left at the next intersection.  On the left you will see a wooden double door frame in gold.
At the first intersection that is a 3-way, turn down it and you will be on a narrow one way street with a parking lot on the left.
Go all the way down until you're about to go into the intersection and you will see pumpkins on your left.  Touchdown is on the bigger pumpkin against the door. Position yourself so a gray building with extra-large windows is on your right and the intersection is just a few steps away. Turn left at that intersection. After you turn, scaffolding and an orange and white construction barrier will be on your right. 

Follow this road for a while. You'll know you're about halfway to your destination when you see a building on your right with yellow columns and a lime green awning. 

When you finally get to an intersection don't go through it. Stop there at the crosswalk and look to your right. There is a business on the corner with tables and chairs outside. Just beyond the furniture is a blue mailbox near a couple of trash bins. Touchdown is sitting right on top of the blue mailbox.  Go with the flow of traffic.  There will be a building with big arches on your left. Go straight through one intersection; turn left at the second.  There will  be scaffolding on your right at this point.  Go to the next intersection, stopping immediately after you cross the second sidewalk.  In front of you to your right is a black trash bin.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this bin, in the middle. Turn so you are going the same direction as traffic. Head straight. Stay in the middle lane as you head through the archway. Stay in this lane. Stop just before you get to the crosswalk at the intersection. You will see a fire hydrant on the sidewalk on your right. Touchdown is sitting on top of this fire hydrant.   Follow the flow of traffic down to the first stop signs and turn left go down this road until the first traffic light and turn right as soon as you make the right turn there will be a market on your right with some empty shelves outside on your right side. Go past the building with the green awning on your right and just past the street and touchdown is sitting next to the light pole and garbage can. Orient yourself with traffic and go further through the intersection in order to make a left turn. You should then end up aligned to pass memorial graffiti on your left of a mother. Turn left at the next light. Follow this road and turn left at the first light, stopping outside the first store on the right. The second store on the right has colored windows above its awning. Touchdown is on the bright blue one. Turn with the flow of cars and go through the 1st intersection and turn left at the next one.  Then take your next left.  Pass the walkway on your left, but stop before the orange ladder on your right.  The bear is on the bottom step. Position yourself so the American flags are on your left hand side.
Travel down the street until you hit the first intersection and make a left.
Shortly after making this turn you will see a large image on your left side of a man snowboarding.
The touchdown is the blue triangle underneath this image. 

 Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Move to the intersection and turn right. Go to the next intersection and turn right again. Just after turning, face right and there is a stack of small blue chairs. Touchdown is on top of the chairs. Orient yourself facing the intersection. Proceed into it and then turn right. At the next intersection, turn right again. Proceed straight down the one way street until just before the next intersection, past the blue dumpster on the right and next to the moving truck being unloaded. Turn to the left and see the white snowflake lights in the window of the building. Touchdown is on the middle snowflake.  Align yourself with the flow of traffic, and head to the intersection to make a right..

Head down to the next intersection, to make another right, then a final right at the next intersection. 

About 3/4ths down this street you'll run in to the rental bike racks that is mostly empty. Align yourself with the first bike rack slot you run in to, touchdown is on the top of it. Turn until the playground is on your right and the green metal fence is on your left. Walk to the next intersection and turn right. The brick building with green paint at the base should be on your right. Walk straight to the next intersection and turn right. The green and white brick building should be on your left. Walk down the street past the playground on your left. Keep going until you reach a red, white, and blue playground on your left. Stop just before your reach it.  There should be a black fire hydrant in front of you to your left right before the playground. Touchdown is placed at the base of the fire hydrant.  From the starting position, face the same direction that traffic is moving in. You'll see a large red sign in front of you and a traffic light very close to you. Move straight through the first traffic light. At the second traffic light, turn left. There will be a large building with many windows on your left. Continue straight down this street until you get to a traffic light.  At the traffic light, turn left. Immediately after you turn left, look to your left and you will see a number of store fronts. One has a white sign with green writing. There is a four leaf clover in front of the first word. Touchdown is on that four leaf clover. Orient yourself so that you are facing the intersection.  Enter the intersection and turn left.  There will be a green bike lane to your left as you go down this street. Go to the stoplight and turn left again.  There will be a park to your left.   Head down this street.  Pass through one intersection.  As you near the second you will see a long line of orange cones.  Pass all of these cones and then stop.  Turn back to your right and look down.  You will see the last cone.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this cone.   To verify you're in the correct position you should see a store on your left with a large purple sign with white letters. On your right will be several stores within the brick building and they have great signs.
When you reach the first intersection please make a right turn. You will see several green awnings on your left. On your right you will see a white red and blue scaffolding advertisement. Please continue straight on the street for some distance.
To verify or store on the correct road he should be going straight and now you should be passing some stores on the right with green awnings and white letters. Once you reach the first intersection please turn slight right. On your right you'll see a couple of trees growing out of planters. Touchdown is sitting directly in front of the first tree on the ground. Turn so the two green balls on the pillars are to your left. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. There should be a green awning to your right. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. The park should be on your left. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. You should see red doors on the church to your right. Walk forward until you are in front of the middle set of doors. There should be a fire hydrant in front of you. Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic. Continue forward to the intersection and take a right. You should see a large electronic billboard to your right and several electronic Billboards in the distance in front of you. Continue forward until you're in line with the billboard to your right. Stop and turn to your right and you should see several Chrome bollards sticking out of the ground touchdown is at the base of the leftmost Chrome Bollard. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.

At the intersection ahead you should see green fencing and some orange barriers, take a left so you end up on the street with the orange barriers on your right.  You're going to have to mess around with moving about to get onto the street, but ultimately you need those orange barriers and that green fence on your right.

Go straight through the next intersection and the one that follows.

You should hit a new stretch of orange and white barriers on your right.

At the break in the green fencing, look right and you should see a pinkish building next to a white and brick building.  On top of this is an out of place wooden fence.  Above that fence is a fire escape.  Touchdown is on the fence where the fire escape ladder meets it.
 Turn to face the intersection closest to you. Enter the intersection and turn right. There will be a tree on the left on a small crosswalk median. Go straight to the first intersection you come to and turn right again. There will be a grayish building on the right side with red letters.  You will pass by a green awning that extends out to the street. Continue to go streaight, you will come up to a row of rental bikes on the left side. When getting to the intersection, on the right corner closest. The Touchdown is found on top fo the crosswalk signal.  Orient yourself so that you are looking at the intersection ahead.  Go straight through this intersection, there will be a parking lot on your right. Go straight until you get to the first stop light and turn left.  Go under the overpass, and turn left again.  Go all the way down to the stoplight and look to your right.  Touchdown will be on top of the blue mailbox. Orient yourself so the row of red awnings is to your left. Move down this street, going a bit back to the side then forward again so you're able to continue in your original direction, passing scaffolding on your left. When you reach the light, turn right. 

Continue past the fenced area with trees on your left, and when you reach the next intersection turn right. Now you should be on a very narrow road. Soon there will be a road jutting to your right. Take that right turn and stop. On your right is a small red sign on a pole. Touchdown is on the red sign. Align yourself so the reflective glass building is on your left, and head up to the first intersection to make a left. There should be a small fenced in area with some construction materials on your right. Head straight through the first intersection and move just past the two trucks sticking out of the loading docks, right before the bridge, and the fourth dock. There's a white sign between the third and fourth dock with black letters, and another of the same to the left. Touchdown is on the right one, between third and fourth dock. Hello there!

1. Make sure that you're facing the intersection, and step into it. Face the road that has a store with a blue awning on your left and scaffolding on your right.

2. Move down this road to the next intersection, and take a right. There should be a green awning attached to a red brick building to the right and slightly ahead of you, and some short fencing should be to your left.

3. Pass by some scaffolding on either side of the street on your way to the next intersection, and take another right. There should now be a fenced-in median with an assortment of flora in it to your left.

4. Pass through the first intersection that you come across. Your destination is close. When you see that you're even with the long, dark green awning in front of the scaffolding on the right, stop. There's a little lamp on top of the awning that looks sort of like an upside-down cup. That's where Touchdown is.

Good luck! :) Turn so that the parking lot is on your right and the bridge is in front of you in the distance. Walk forward past the tennis courts. After you pass tennis courts walk past the brick building. Go until you are standing over the road that crosses beneath you. Face that road. There should be a metal post directly in front of you to the left. There is a white box taped to it. Touchdown is in the middle of the box. Orient so the wall's on your left and the chain-link fence on your right. Go LEFT. At the next light, go LEFT again, past the 1st light to the 2nd light and into that intersection, to stand in the middle of it. You'll have scaffolding on the left corner, a shop with wrap-around green awning on the right corner, and the street in front of you will have red-painted asphalt.   
If you look ahead and left, in front of the scaffolding, you can make out a white-capped hydrant between two silver pipes.

FIND Touchdown on the white-cap of the hydrant to your left, in front of the scaffolding. You need to go with the flow of the traffic. You're going to follow that until the next intersection. Take a left. On your right, you will see garbage trucks. Continue down that road until the next intersection and take a left. Go down until you see the red garage on the right, and the nice looking doors to the left. Your touchdown will be in the the middle of the first set of red lights above the black door.  Orient yourself with traffic and proceed. Pass the bike rack and turn left at the first intersection. Turn left at the next light too, and proceed past a mailbox on the left. Stop when you are between stores with a black awning and blue awning on the right. Do not pass the store with a rose above its name. Touchdown is on the left leaf of the rose stem. Turn so the water is on your left. Go down this road toward the bridge in front of you. You will stop long before that bridge by about 5-6 car lengths. If you turn to your right, There's a tall narrow building with a parking lot in front of it and a basketball court to the left. Touchdown is in the red circle of that basketball court. Turn and follow traffic down the street. You will pass a dumpster on your left. You will go straight thru stop signs. You will go by some trees that have lights on them on the right. Turn left at the intersection. You will pass a green statue on the left.  Then turn left at the next intersection and the green statue is still on your left.  You will pass 2 signs that are red, black and yellow. on left and right. As soon as you go past the signs there will be a fire hydrant on the right between 2 yellow pipes. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant.  Align yourself with traffic and start moving forward. Keep moving past the large white building on your right.  Keep moving forward until you can take a right. Move one step to the right to change lanes. To your left is a large lamp pole with a bird on top of it. Touchdown is on top of the bird. Enter the intersection, and turn right.  Take a few steps and look right. You should be directly in front on an orange cone and a fire hydrant (Across the street from you).  Bear is on top of cone. You're starting in an intersection.  You're going to walk down the larger street, not the narrower one.  On the larger street, turn yourself so you'll walk in the same direction the cars are going where you're standing.  Go to the first traffic light intersection, and turn right. Go straight through one small (stop sign) intersection.  At the second intersection, turn right. You'll pass a big dumpster or set of pallets with a blue tarp over it.  When you're past the blue tarp, go a tiny bit further to pass the cute little storefront with the wood paneling on the front.  Once you're there, look at the wood-paneled store, and note that the left-most window has a small sign in the lower left corner, with a green letter B on it.  The bear is on that B. Orient yourself with traffic and turn left at the intersection in front of you. Stop before the crosswalk of the next intersection. Touchdown is on top of the mailbox to your left. From the starting position face such that there is a store/restaurant with red awnings behind you and to the right. You'll see some pointy-topped skyscrapers in the distance in front of you. Travel down the road in this direction until you get to a street light. Turn right at the light. There will be some construction barriers on either side of the street. Move this way -- the wrong way down a 1-way street until you get to a street light. Turn right at the light. After turning right, look to your right and there will be a large tree with the base surrounded by a metal fence. Touchdown is on the tree at the height of the top of the fence. turn around and align yourself against traffic in your lane. you should have the tall building with red lettering above the black awning to your right.

Head up to the first intersection to make a right, then another right at the next intersection, and finally, another right. On this street, you should see a hand wrapped around words as a store symbol on your left, head just past the third one, and you should see three closed brown doors. to the top right of the doors is a camera. Touchdown is covering the camera. Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Move to the intersection and turn right. Go to the next intersection and turn right again. Continue down this road until you are almost at the end of the orange/white striped barriers to your left (just before they switch to a much smaller orange/white border). To your right is a diamond orange sign with a bike. Touchdown is on the sign. Go with the flow of traffic to the first intersection and take a left turn. At the next intersection, take another left turn. You'll have scaffolding on your right.   Go straight, there will be another set of scaffolding on your right.  There will also be a mailbox in front of the scaffolding with white graffiti on it.  Touchdown is on top of the mailbox. Turn and go in the same direction as the traffic. Some construction will be on your right. Turn right at intersection. Construction on the right.  You will pass some orange and white barriers on the left. Turn right at the intersection. Some red awnings on the left. When you get to the next intersection look to the right and you will see blue and yellow umbrella and touchdown is sitting on top.  Orient yourself so that you are facing the park.  Go forward in order to enter the intersection.  Turn right.  The park will now be on your left.  Go to the first intersection and turn right.  There will be scaffolding on your left.  Go to the next intersection and turn right again.  There will be a red bus lane on the right side of you.  Go to the next intersection and stop right after you cross over the first crosswalk.  Look up and slightly to your right.  There is a stoplight hanging there.  Touchdown is sitting in front of the green light on this stoplight.   Move with traffic, keeping the chain link fence on your right. You will pass rows of blue benches, go to the intersection and take a right, a game field is on your left. The street will loop you around to the main street, there os a play ground on your right, at the end of the playground there are 3 have circle monkey bars in varying sizes, the bear is on top of the tallest Follow the flow of traffic. You should immediatly see the white fan. Instantly take that right. Look to your left and you should see a very familar logo. Now you just go until you see the van with cones around it. Your touchdown will be the top of the cone on the left side of the van.  Turn so the scaffolding is on your left side and head in the direction of traffic on the road with several lanes. Go straight through the next intersection. When you reach the next intersection. go straight through again. At the third intersection you will take a left. When you turn there will be a store with a green awning on the right and a store on the left with black awning. You are moving with the flow of traffic. Go straight a little more than halfway down this street. When you see green scaffolding on the left you are just about there. As soon as you are past the scaffolding you will see an open door with cars inside the building on the left. The very next doors are brown and closed. Touchdown is on the ground in the middle of the first brown closed door. Turn so the parking lot is on your right, and go forward.  Go straight through two three-way intersections (the second one is barely noticeable, but you'll have to be careful to try and continue straight).  You'll have construction along your left side most of the way here.  Then you'll come to a big three-way intersection, with a huge glass building in front of you.  Turn left here.  
Now a bit of the huge glass building is to your right, and there's a construction wall to your left.  Go forward until you reach an intersection, and turn left.  You're not going far from this intersection.  After turning left, note that there are concrete barriers on the right side, with painted yellow stripes.  Stop when you're just barely even with the beginning of the first of these barriers.  The bear is on the first corner of the first barrier piece.   Turn so the red bridge is on your left.  There will be a spot where you can turn left.  Stop there and just look ahead.  There is a street like a few yards ahead.  Go to it.  Take a couple steps past the light and stop.  Turn and look back at that light, and look up at the bulb.  The bear is there. Turn and follow the flow of traffic.  Skip 2 right turns, go through 2 intersections, and when you can only make a left turn, stop.  Look right.  Bear is on fire hydrant between 2 posts..   If you are in the correct position you will see a building with two black awnings to your left. To your right is a beige building with our round window on the second floor. Please head straight until you reach the intersection. Please make a left turn at the intersection. If you have turn on the correct street you will see a building with white and black striped awnings on the left. The building is white in color.
Please continue straight until you reach the next intersection then turn left.
You will pass a red building on your left which has two wooden doors into black doors.
When you reach the next intersection please turn left.
You should see a building on your left with a long red awning.
Once you have passed that building look to your right for a fire hydrant touchdown is sitting directly on top of the hydrant Position yourself so the intersection is immediately in front of you and a green wall is on your left. Step into that intersection and turn right. You'll see a bright blue building on your left. Go straight to the next intersection, and turn right again. This is a very sharp turn, so you're heading right, but also back in the direction you're coming from. 

After you turn, you're on a one-way narrow street. A mural is painted on a wall on your right after you get around the curve. Just beyond that is a tall silver ladder leaned up against some scaffolding on your right. When you're in line with the ladder, you'll see a fire hydrant just a couple steps ahead. Touchdown is sitting on the very top of the hydrant. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Go straight through the next intersection.
You should see scaffolding on the right. and a giant green wall on the left.
Turn left at the next intersection.  The green wall should wrap around down the street we're heading.
Turn left at the next intersection when you see the barriers blocking the left side of the street.
You should see scaffolding on the right after you turn.
Ahead on the left you should see a store with it's name above the door way in gold.  Directly next to the opening to the store, you should see two yellow dots on the wall near the ground.  Touchdown is sitting on them. Orient yourself so that the 'do not enter' signs are on your left at you are following the flow of traffic. Continue forward and then turn left when possible. Go striaight through one intersection and stop once you reach the second. The touchdown is on the center of the manhole cover behind the red pavement on the sidewalk ahead and to your left.  Follow traffic to the intersection and go left.

Walk through the next two intersections you encounter until you reach a third one.

Stand in the middle of the intersection, so you can turn slightly to your right and see the building with a green runner with scaffolding in front of it, and a red newspaper kiosk with a green trashcan next to it. 

The touchdown is on top of and over the hole of the dome of that trash can. Orient yourself so that median and trees are to your left. Go straight down this road. At the second intersection, make a right turn. There will be orange and white construction cones to your left. Go to the next traffic light and make another right turn. There will be a building with tan awnings to your right. Go to the next intersection. As you begin to go through the intersection you will see the traffic light pole on your left. The pole has a black sign with a white arrow. Touchdown is sitting at the bottom of that pole.  Face the direction of traffic, there should be a storefront with plants in front of the window on your left. Go to the intersection. It will give you the option to turn, don't take your first right. Go out into the intersection toward the orange and white construction barricades. Once it gives you the option to turn take a right. Those barricades should now be on your left and there will be a sidewalk and brick with grass and trees planted on your right. 
Go straight until you see a billboard on your right. The billboard is white with 4 words written on it. Two are black two are pink.  Touchdown will be right on the first pink word. Orient yourself so the entrance to the building is on your right.  Walk out of the tunnel.  Keep going straight, you'll make the corner around the building without officially turning.  The building will be on your right side and the glass walls will turn into metal rectangles of different sizes.  Keep going straight until you see a yellow speed bump across the road.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the speed bump in the middle of the street. enter the intersection so the long red awning is on your left. Turn left so the red awning is now near you on the right. On the corner with the red awning is a small black and white sign with a bicycle. Touchdown is in the middle of that sign. Follow traffic into the light and go right.  Go right again at the little one lane off road on the right just before the next light, where the right side is completely lined with orange k-walls.  Go under the first overpass and stop immediately after stepping under the second.  Rotate left. Touchdown is atop the orange and white construction barrel.   From the starting position orient yourself so you're facing the same direction as the cars on the street. Move in this direction until you get to an intersection with a traffic light. Turn right at the light. You'll move past a restaurant with a green awning on your right. Then, at the first intersection, take another right. The street will be lined with trees. Immediately on your left will be a fire hydrant between 2 small poles. Touchdown is sitting on this fire hydrant. Turn until you are facing with traffic, then go forward to the end of the block. It might be a little farther than you expect, there will be a very tall, very bright building in the distance on your left. Now turn right, and go past the end of this block. Move to a lane on your left, or else you will have to turn away from the goal later. Now go forward, past where the right lanes have to turn, to the middle of the next intersection. There should be a little green trash can next to the crossing signal on the other side of the street and on your right. Touchdown is in the bottom of that can. Orient yourself so that you are moving with traffic. Move ahead into that close intersection and turn left. Then move ahead, passing a subway entrance to your right just past your turn, and continue until the next intersection. Turn left. Now you will pass on your left a long store with a skinny dark green border on top. Before the next intersection, to your left is a small white street sign on a pole. Touchdown is on the white sign. Turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  You should be facing an intersection, and there are two parked motorcycles on your right.  Walk forward a bit into the middle of the intersection.  You should now be able to turn to your left, where you will see a large blue tarp hanging from the building on your right.  Walk forward down this narrow road, keeping the shop with the white and red banner on your right.  

Keep moving forward, and then stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to.  Turn to your left so that a red brick building with a green stripe is on your left.  Walk down this narrow path, so that you pass two parked motorcycles (one black, one blue) on your left.  

Just keep going straight until you reach the intersection.  Stop in the intersection and turn to your left.  You should see a small shop with a blue column in front of its door.  Walk down the street that will keep this blue column on your right as you pass.  Continue down that street until you come to an intersection.  

As you step into the intersection, you will come face to face with a green wall.  Stop and turn to your left so that the wall, an orange and white construction barrier, and some chain link fencing are all on your right.  Walk down the narrow lane, keeping the fence and barrier on your right.  

After you pass the end of the construction area, pass two awnings on your left, one brown and one red.  

Walk just a bit further until you are right next to a small park on your left behind a chain link fence.  Stop, and look to your right.  In front of a small shop is a green A-frame sign with white lettering.  Touchdown the Bear is sitting on top of this sign's frame.

 Begin moving with the flow of traffic, and turn right at the first intersection. After you turn, there will be a gray building with green signs on your left and green scaffolding just ahead on your right. 

Go straight through the first intersection, and turn right at the second one. There will now be long illuminated advertisements on the building on your left and a banner with several females on it on your right. At the next traffic light, step into the middle of the intersection and look up and to your right. There's a banner with a watch on it. Touchdown is sitting right in the center of the face of that watch.  Turn with the flow of cars and enter the nearest intersection.  Turn right, then take the next right.  Continue until just before you enter the next intersection.  Look left, and back.  There is an orange cone, bear is on top. You start very close to an intersection.  Move into the intersection and turn left.  Going down this road you'll pass a number of large brick buildings; the first one on the left has red awnings over the doors.  Continue until you reach the first intersection and turn left.  Move forwards and stop just before you reach the next intersection.  There will be a concrete island in the road with three posts at the end you reach first.  The outer posts are white with two orange stripes.  The center post is taller and has two yellow diamonds on it.  Touchdown is on the top diamond. Orient yourself, so that the black awning on the brown building is to your left, go forward and make a left at the corner of that building. Follow the line of trees on your right and make a left at the intersection, with the brown brick building on your left. Follow the traffic and make your last left at the traffic light. Pass the green, white and orange awning on your right and stop before you reach the intersection. Touchdown is on the center of the white sign with black letters, on the green scaffolding to your right. GO WITH traffic. GO LEFT at the light. GO LEFT again at the next one. Finally at the end of the long block GO RIGHT at the light but don't pass the crosswalk.  To your left should be scaffolding, and to your right, a red awning with green writing with a white shadow, in a building with huge white pillars.

ROTATE RIGHT.  FIND Touchdown center atop the blue mailbox.
 Orient yourself so you are facing the same direction the cars are parked and traffic is going.  Walk down this road to the first intersection and turn right.  Walk down this road and continue straight through the first intersection.  Stop walking just before you enter the next intersection.  On your right is a green covered trashcan next to the crosswalk signs.  Touchdown is on top of the green trashcan. Position yourself facing the same direction as traffic with scaffolds to your right.
Move forward though the first intersection ahead.
At the second intersection turn right and go straight to the traffic light just ahead of you.
At this traffic light turn right again, and travel past the intersection a short distance away.
There should be scaffolding to the left and a orange/white umbrella to your left.
Continue ahead paying attention to the right side of the street.
Just past where the scaffolds on the right start, turn left and see a bicycle with a orange plastic bag on the seat chained to a scaffold post. Touchdown is on the bicycle seat.



 position yourself so you are following the traffic and the bridge is almost above you. Now follow the traffic  go to the intersection. You will see red awning to your right. Then turn left here at this intersection. Once you made the turn, go straight to the next intersection. At the right corner of the intersection there is a store with 5 white letters and a blue logo. In front of the store there is an orange/tan umbrella. The touchdown is in the middle of the blue logo of that store sign (the one facing the umbrella).  Go with traffic to the second light and go left. Going against traffic now, go past the next light and stop exactly when there are two olive colored mailboxes to your left. Rotate to face them head on, and find Touchdown atop in centered in the dead space between them. Turn yourself so the main 4-way intersection is behind you and you're facing down the narrow street with the bike path painted green.  Go down the street with the green bike path until you come to the first intersection where you can turn right (it's not a main intersection - no light).  Turn right there, and note the bikes parked on your left along the sidewalk.  Stop when you're even with the last couple of bikes on the left.  A bit ahed of you and on the left is a brown dumpster.  The bear is on top of the light-colored splotch on the dumpster lid. Go with traffic flow all the way to the next intersection and turn right. 

Still with traffic flow, go to the next intersection and turn right. 

Still with traffic flow, go to the next intersection. Just as you get to the intersection, look to your right to see a tan building with long, narrow, round lights on it with metal trim. There are two lights as you face this building. Touchdown is on top of the left one closest to the corner of the building.  This one you need get into the intersection that is at the start of this then turn left. You are heading the right direction if you see the jewelry in the shop window on your right side and a red pole at that corner. Go straight until the next intersection that is a 3way.  Turn left. There should be buildings ahead that have a lot of red signs on several floors. Go straight and follow the road as it curves to the left. There is an intersection almost as soon as you are going straight. Keep going straight through the intersection. Ahead you will see a green and white bridge over the road. When you pass a small blue awning on the left side you are almost to the right place. Right after you pass a parked truck on the left side that has a lot of graffiti on it stop. Across the street from there you will see a lot of boxes in the road. Touchdown is on top of the first white box on the ground with a small black box on top of it. Follow traffic to the end of the block and go right. Blue awning with white stripes will be on the left.  At the light, go left. Go through the first light. As you approach the second, stop when, looking ahead, you see the three lines on the pavement denoting lanes, in front of the crosswalk.  

You will see a white building on the left hand corner with a red roof. Look way farther away, and you'll be able to make out a clock tower way in the distance with a pointy roof.  Touchdown is on the face of the clock. 

It will be obvious why nothing closer, on either side , was used. Turn so the road that is slightly elevated is to your left. You are actually facing traffic on this road. Up ahead on the left are arch ways in a bridge on the left. Go down this road. When you have an option to go left or right, go left down the ramp. Those arches are immediately to your left as you go down this road. At the corner, turn left going under the arched metal bridge and under the overpass beyond it. Don't take the exit to the right, you want to go straight when you turn. 

Go through the first full intersection that comes up shortly, but go right at the 3-way immediately after it. When you turn you are still facing traffic and there is a brick building to your left with a nice lawn. 

Go down to the first 3-way that comes up shortly, and take the left and stop. Right in front of you is a hydrant that Touchdown is sitting on top of.

 Follow the flow of traffic to the intersection.  Turn right. Go to the next intersection.  Turn right.  Continue forward.  Pass the basketball court (On right).  Pass black dumpster (On right).  Walk into the intersection and stop.  Look at the green trash can on your right.  The bear is on the black bag on the ground. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Go straight through the next intersection, keeping the median with all the trees on your left.  You will pass a national flag on the right and go through another intersection.  There will be scaffolding on your right with a red banner across it.
At the next intersection, turn right and follow the scaffolding with a red banner around the corner.  At the following intersection, turn right.  Go forward and stop when you are near a green wood doorway on the right just before a covered bench.  On that wooden doorway is a big logo with light blue.  Touchdown is in the center of that sign. Align yourself so that you'll be going with the flow of traffic on the two lane road and the scaffolding is on the left.  There's also some red awnings on your right.  Go to the first intersection and take a left turn.  You'll a window with mannequins on your right next to the subway entrance.  Go straight to the next intersection and turn left.  Go past all the bikes and go into the center of the next intersection.  Touchdown will be on top of the black trashcan on the left next to the area where the green bike lane begins ahead of you. turn to move with traffic, keeping the white and yellow construction barriers to your right.  you will pass yellow and orange painted trimmed buildings, go to the 1st intersection. Take a left, there will be a building on the right with white potted planters, past that you will see a restaurant with a pink awning, the bear is in the middle of that awning Face with the traffic down the street that does not have any construction scaffolding on it. Proceed to the next intersection. Note that you will pass some scaffolding on your left. Turn right at the intersection. You can see a pointed building up ahead. Go straight through the next intersection with the big white sign on the building. Stop next to the 3 garbage cans on the right side. Touchdown is sitting on the center can with the green lid. Turn until the trees are on your left and the red awnings are on your right. Walk forward past the playground, soccer field, and basketball courts. Turn right down the street after the basketball courts. Walk forward past the blue door on the left to the next intersection. Walk straight through the intersection and stop right before the crosswalk. Face left. You should see a fire hydrant with cardboard boxes behind it. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant. Move with traffic,go to the 1st intersection and take a right. There is a playground on the right and a bus stop, move to the next intersection and take another right, the playground is still on your right. On your right after the black fence is a red brick building with green awnings with 3 numbers on them, the bear is on the numbers on the left awning
 Turn so that there are four white and yellow posts in the middle of the road in front of you. Walk forward into the intersection and turn left. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left. A white building with black awnings should be on your left and a brick building with green awnings should be on your right. Walk to the end of this street and walk into the intersection. Stop in the middle before you cross the red lane. There should be a blue box in the road divider. Touchdown is on top of the blue box. Turn so that you are going against the flow of traffic. At the first street turn left.Just as you go past the manhole cover on your left with an orange x on it stop and turn so that you are looking at it. And you will find Touchdown sitting in th middle of that orange x Stand facing the same direction of the cars, with the tan building on your left, go forward and stop at the intersection, and look to your right with the reddish brown store awning. Touchdown will be on the ground, right in front of the store entrance. Face in the direction of traffic.  There will be scaffolding covering the sidewalk immediately to your left and further up the road on your right.  Go forwards and turn left at the first intersection.  There will be a cover over a doorway on the right that is covered with lights.  Move to the first intersection and turn left.  Move forwards and stop in the middle of the first intersection you reach.  On the far side of the intersection, on the right, there is a payphone next to some scaffolding.  Touchdown is sitting at the base of the post holding the payphone. Turn yourself so that you are going with the flow of traffic on this one way street. Go to the first traffic light and make a right turn. At the next traffic light, make another right turn. After you turn, you should see a red awning to your left, and a store front to your right with red letters. Go straight down this road. While going straight, you will see a blue awning to your left, shortly after the awning, you will pass a store front with black and red letters. In front of this store, there are two gray pipes sticking out of the ground. Touchdown is sitting on top of these two pipes.  With the pillars to your left, go straight, carrying through the bend. As you near the exit of the second tunnel, there are panels on the wall to the left. There is a big panel and a small panel. Touchdown is in front of the big panel. Turn with the flow of traffic and take your first left.  Pass one let and go through the next intersection.  There will now be a red brick wall with graffiti on your right.  At the next intersection, turn left.  Pass the rental bikes.  Stop at the end of the covered walkway on your right.  At the very end there is a red hose hookup that sticks up out of the ground.  The bear is on top.   Go into the intersection that has the white and orange road barriers on it. Turn left at the intersection. The road barriers will be on your right now. Stop just before the crosswalk of the next intersection.  Look right there is a green trash can next to a motorcycle . Touchdown is sitting at the opening of the trash can. Go in the same direction as traffic.  There will be a large concrete barrier to your left.  Move forward to the first intersection.  Turn to face right.  You will see two American flags on a building to your right.  Touchdown is sitting on the flagpole closest to you, at the point where the flagpole meets the building.   Orient yourself so that the empty stores are to your left. Take a right at the big eye mural. Take a right at the intersection where the tar is being dumped onto the road. Go straight until reaching a red awning with green, white and red striped decorations on it. Touchdown is right on the front center of the awning cover closest to the road. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Go through the first intersection (you cannot go left or right even though it is there).

At the next intersection, turn right.  Out in the distance you'll see a building with a slanted roof and a very tall tower on top of it.  Go forward.

Turn right at the next intersection.  If you're oriented correctly, you'll see high up on the building to the left a black banner with white writing and a green line under the writing.  Go forward.

Skip through the next intersection and stop when just before the two bikes that are next to a pole with a red and yellow sign.  Just past that is a tall black fire hydrant with a silver top.  Touchdown is at the base of the fire hydrant.
 Turn so you are facing traffic. There will be a red lane painted on the left side of the street. Start going straight and turn left where there is a fork in the road. After the fork take an immediate sharp left. There will be a white SUV parked on the left side of the street here. Head down to the intersection stopping in the middle of it. Touchdown is sitting on the top middle of the black and white sign with an arrow on it-on the ride side of the street.  Turn yourself so that the black building with the fence shutter pulled down is on your right. Go up to the red octagon sign at the intersection and turn right. Go down this street until you come to the first traffic light. At the traffic light, make a right turn. You will go straight through the traffic light when you come to it. Continue on this road. On the right you will see a store front that has a red curtain in it. There is a brown and glass door. Touchdown is sitting at the bottom of this doorway.  Orient yourself so that you are facing the intersection close to you. Move to that intersection and turn left. Go to the next intersection, and turn left again.

Continue straight, passing through one intersection (where there is a stoplight, but the street to the left is blocked off). Continue straight, passing green scaffolding on your right. At the end of that section of scaffolding, there will then be a green fence with a white sign at the start. Touchdown is on the white sign. Turn so the large bright American flag is on your right.  Proceed forward and turn left at the first intersection.  There will be a large glass building with red letters, proceed towards that building, following traffic.  Turn left when you reach the intersection just before that tall building.  Travel straight down that road, passing the first intersection on your right and stop before you enter the next 4 way intersection.  Look to your right and you will see at tan building with clocks on the outside. Look to the right of the door and there are 2 clocks.  Touchdown is in the middle of the clock the farthest to the right. Turn so that you are facing the construction work in the middle of the intersection. Walk through this intersection to the next one. Turn left. There should be a red square post to your right. Walk forward through the next intersection. Keep going until you pass the yellow excavator to your right and stop. There should be a bunch of flags in front of you. 

Touchdown is in the the middle of the blue flag with the white lamp on it. Follow traffic to the end of the block and go right.  At the end of that block, go right again. Walk past the maroon building with matching awnings on your right, and proceed until you see an all white brick building with a very noticeable black awning with gold glyphs on it.  Stop before reaching the next building on the right, which has a red awning with white glyphs, and turn to the right to face the white building.

You will notice a red pipe with a wye on top, and a green pipe, also with a wye.  Touchdown is between the two yellow pipe caps of the wye of the red pipe. Turn to face the intersection next to you and go right there.
You should see a green awning on your right.
Turn right at the next intersection.  There will be a yellow roll up door on your left and a blue one on the right.
Head down the street, pass the green iron fencing on the right.
Stop just before the red fire hydrant past the fencing.  Touchdown is hiding on the fire hydrants cap. Orient yourself such that you are facing the nearest traffic light and proceed forward through three intersections. Turn right at the fourth intersection. Proceed until you pass basketball courts on your right and a speed bump is in front of you. A banner with stars should hang from a fence on your right. Touchdown is on the center star. Start with the river on your right.
Proceed slightly ahead and turn left and then left again, basically a u-turn.
Now the river is on your left, and you are facing the wrong way (into traffic).
See the grassy median to your right side.
Travel straight though the first intersection and start paying attention to your left.
You will very quickly come to a second intersection that you will stop in the middle of.
Look slightly to your right and see three short black vertical posts on the island.
Touchdown is sitting atop the post in the center.

 

 Turn so you are facing the same direction as the flow of traffic. Walk straight until you can't anymore and then turn left. The overpass should be on your right and the buildings should be on our left. Walk down this road past the scaffolding on the left and past the connecting road on the left. Keep going until you reach orange and white wooden gates on your right. There should be a small red sign above them. Touchdown is in the middle of the red sign. Turn so the nearby intersection is behind you. Go straight until you get to the light then take a right. You will see outdoor seating with blue umbrellas on your left. Go straight and at the next light take a right. Go straight and stop when you get to the middle of the next intersection. You will see an ice cream truck up ahead parked on the left side of the street. Look to your right. Touchdown is sitting on top of the purple hat on the table of hats on the sidewalk. Orient yourself with the scaffolding to the right. Take a left at the first intersection, then take another left. Go straight down the street, past the purple flags until you see an open door to your right. Touchdown is sitting in the doorway. Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street.  Go forward and straight through the first intersection you come to.  At the second intersection, turn left.  Now you'll have a bush stop shelter on your right and be on a two-way street.  Go forward until you reach an intersection, and turn left.  You'll be on a street with a bus lane that's painted red.  On the left side you'll pass a food truck with blue and white umbrellas.  After that is a double-wide phone booth, then a green mailbox with graffiti.  Stop when you're even with the graffiti mailbox.  The bear is on top of the mailbox. Follow traffic and take a right at the light, and another right at the next one.

Go right again at the next light, but stop before stepping on to the crosswalk.

Face to your right a little, so you're looking at the corner of the corner building. There's a white sign in black framing, and the framing is thicker and dome shaped on top.

Touchdown is dead center of the black top dome, where it touches the white square sign below. Orient yourself with traffic and proceed forward. Turn right at the first light. Turn right again at the next light. Make a final right turn at the next light too. Stop when even with the first scaffolding on the right. The tree by this end of scaffolding has red and pink flowers at its base. Touchdown is at the base of the tree. Follow traffic straight through two lights and go right at the third.

Pass the red door under the white arch on your right and continue on, past another red door under another white arch and stop when you're even with the gravel pit in the fence opening on your left. Rotate to your right.

Touchdown is adhered to the square white sign on the closed left black gate of the playground. Position yourself so the water is on your left and you're about to drive under a bridge. Pass under that first bridge and before you get to the second one, there will be a large white building on your right that is longer than it is tall. Almost exactly in line with the start of that building is a blue sign with white writing on a pole beside the short cement wall next to you. Touchdown is placed on the white arrow of that blue sign.  Orient yourself so that you are moving with the flow of traffic, out of the intersection, on the skinnier street (with only 2 lanes). Go straight to the next intersection and turn left. Go to the next intersection, and turn left again.

Continue until you come to a brick wall with graffiti on your left. There are 3 words in graffiti close to each other on the brick. Touchdown is in the center of the middle word. Face in the direction the parked cars are facing.  You'll see construction ahead on your left and a basketball court on the right.  At the first intersection, turn right.  Go forwards, through the first intersection, and stop just before the second junction. Look to your left: the restaurant on the corner has a two page menu posted outside.  Touchdown is on the page on the right. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.

Step into the intersection and turn right. Go forward to the next intersection and turn right again.  There should be a building on your right that has a lot of windows and is red.

Go forward.  You should have an option right before the scaffolding on your left to go left, don't.  Keep going.

The road will dead end, turn right.  Go forward until you're right next to a mailtruck on your left.  There will be an option to turn right.  Do it.  Oncew you do you'll be in a crosswalk with some barriers on your left.

There's a hydrant just before that on your left.  Touchdown is on the cap of the hydrant.
 Go into the nearest intersection. Find the one way with the green mail box on the left and go down this street.
Turn right at the intersection. It is a right turn only street. There is a painted red brick building on the right.
Go straight at the next intersection.
Look for the green scaffolding on the right. Stop next to the teal bike with red wheels locked to the green post. Touchdown is sitting on the seat of the bike.


 Orient yourself so there is a food cart on the left side. The storefronts also have green awnings. Move forward passing by an alleyway, at the first traffic light proceed straight through it. There will be construction on the right sidewalk. The interaction is at the end of the sidewalk construction, take a left turn.  After making the turn, there is a row of rental bikes on the right.  Continue past the fenced always and continue to the intersection with crosswalks and make another left turn.  Stop at the third tree on the right side of the road.  There's a black fence with trees behind the fence off the sidewalk.  The Touchdown is sitting on the fenceline on the first tree that sits behind the fence.  Position yourself so the wooden crates are on your left hand side.
Travel down the street and pass through the first intersection you see.
You'll pass a sweets shop on the left.
Take a right at the next street.
Now take your next right.
You'll pass some bikes on the left side.
Proceed forward until you're in the middle of the next intersection.
Now look down. You will see two manholes in the center of the intersection with a square grate in the middle.
The touchdown is in the center of the manhole to your right, the one closest to the square grate Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  You'll see a dumpster to the right.
Turn right at the next intersection.  You'll see a plant filled median to your left.
Turn right at the next intersection.  You'll see a green awning ahead on the left.  You should see scaffolding ahead on the right.
Turn right at the next intersection.  You should see some more scaffolding ahead on the right.
Stop in the next intersection.  You'll see a green trash can ahead below a pole that has two signs with arrows on them.  Touchdown is on this trash can. Orient yourself with the traffic on the one-way street. Take a right at the first intersection, a right at the next intersection, and another right at the next intersection after that (three rights in a row). About halfway down the block, there is a parked roofing truck on the left and a red no standing sign on the left. Touchdown is in the middle of the red sign.  Turn so you are facing the same direction as the parked cars. Go straight. Continue straight until you reach an intersection. Turn left. Go straight just a bit until you come to another intersection. Turn left. You will be on a one way street with trees on either side. Go straight. You will pass some orange cones on both sides of the road. Shortly after passing these cones, you will see some grafitti painted some metal doors and trashcans on the left side of the road. Just past this, look to the left for a small blue awning with yellow letters. Touchdown is sitting on top of this awning.  Align yourself so that the green shutters are on your left. Head down to the intersection, and make a right, then another right at the next one.

You should have four red awnings on your right after the second right turn. Head most of the street down, You'll pass some scaffolding on your right, and after that, a large black wall covering construction for a shop. In the black wall, you'll see a red pipe. Touchdown is inside the hole with the red pipe. So you're going to want to go with the flow on traffic. There will be bikes on the right and scaffolding on the left. Go to the intersection and take a right. There should be a yellow cab in front of you now. Go into the intersection and you should see a trash can on the right next to a blue mailbox. Your touchdown is top center of the garbage can.  With your back to the intersection, fenced parking lot to your left, go with traffic. At the end of the street, with potted trees to your left, go all the way to the very center of the 4 street intersection. Looking at the corner ahead to the right, Touchdown is sitting on top of the square red post.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic with the food carts to your right.  Go straight through the next intersection past the purple awnings.
Turn right at the next intersection which will put the light blue awnings on your left.
Head down this street past the scaffolding, the large red and white banner, through the next intersection into some construction.
Stop when you're at the bright yellow sign on the left with the opening in the barrier netting.  Touchdown is on this sign. Turn yourself so you are going with traffic. It will be a little tricky at this intersection. After you turn, you should see a dark green store front on your right. Go straight down this road. Go through two traffic lights. As you start to go through the third traffic light, look to the corner on the right and you will see a gray trashcan. Touchdown is sitting on top of the trashcan.  Turn so that the playground is on your left. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left. The playground should still be on your left. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left. The divider with the trees should be on your right. Walk forward until you reach the connecting street on your left. There should be a green garbage can on the corner. Turn down the street and walk forward. Stop once you pass the rust colored door on your left. Touchdown is in the middle of the white sign on the door. Orient yourself with the flow of traffic. Continue past the park to the first four-way intersection and turn left. At the next intersection, turn left again. There'll be an articulated (double) bus on your right. Continue about halfway down the block and look to your right. On the chain link fence, there are yellow signs. Touchdown is on the sign farthest to the right.  Align yourself with the flow of traffic, the fenced in court should be on your right. Head to the intersection, and make a left. Go a little past the intersection you can't make a turn on, and on your right you should see a stone wall, There's a shuttered rectangle cut out of the stone, with a vent pointing down on it. Touchdown is in the middle of the vent. From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  You should see two red, hexagon shaped signs up ahead.  Walk forward, straight between these two signs, and just keep moving straight forward.  You will pass an open garage/parking lot on your right.  Just keep going until you reach another intersection.  

Take a left at this intersection.  The shop covered in tiny yellow lights should be on your right as you proceed, and some trees with tiny white lights should be on your left, up ahead.  

Walk forward and stop in the middle of the intersection.  Keep facing forward, but take a step to your left.  You should now see a crowded crosswalk in front of you, and off to your right there should be a storefront with two red rectangular signs with blue lettering and miniature American flags on them.  Touchdown is sitting on top of a green metal trash can with a light-green plastic liner, at the base of a gray lamppost, in front of this store. Turn to follow traffic, and go right when you get to the intersection.  Go right again when you reach the next one.

At the next intersection, go right, just enough to enter the one way street.

Turn to your left, so you're facing the building with the red overhang and the sign with an arrow on a metal pole.

The touchdown is sitting on the sidewalk, up against the base of the metal pole, dead center. Hello. Please orient yourself with the tall white colums and the bridge on your left side. To your right side, you will see a red brick building with trees lining the sidewalk.

Walk forward towards the first intersection. Go straight through it.

Continue forward a little bit towards the next intersection. It is a three-way with a red sign on your right side. Turn right.

There will be silver fencing with barbed wire to your right side with a parking lot. To your left side, you will see a short cement barrier. 

Walk forward while keeping your eyes ahead and to the left side. You will approach three yellow and black striped rectangle signs with yellow diamonds beneath them near the next intersection. 

Please slow down and come to a stop when you are standing in front of the first yellow and black striped sign on your left side. Touchdown will be on the yellow diamond sign directly below the closest and first of three yellow and black rectangle signs. Good luck!
 There is a large pile of trash here, walk toward the closest stop sign away from the trash. At the stop sign, make a right. At the next intersection, also make a right. Oh, and this next, also a right. Go straight through the next intersection. At the next intersection, go straight as far as you can toward the sidewalk. You should have a couple light poles, 3 trash cans and a fire hydrant directly in front of you. Touchdown is on the green lidded trash can.  Head down this street with traffic. You will see a billboard with a man and house on the right side of the road. Turn right just before the green gas station on the right side of the road.  Go down this road and make a sharp right at the next intersection. There will be row of orange barriers on the right side of this road. Go straight. Stop when you are on the other side of the over pass. You will see some orange cones in the middle of the road. Touchdown is sitting on top of the one that is knocked over.  Go with traffic to the light and take a right. Go right again at the next light.  You'll be on a street with trees on both sides, and a green entry canopy visible down a bit to your left.  Pass the building with three red awnings on your left and rotate left to face the double black doors of the building after it.  

Touchdown is adhered to the center of the grille of the air conditioner in the white board of the window above the door. Facing traffic, with the brick building to your left and green fencing to your right, move forward. Turn left at the corner. At the next corner turn right. When you turn there is scaffolding on your left and on your right dark green awning with a yellow oval circle and black ribbon with white lettering. There is a tree in front of that awning that Touchdown is at the base of.  Turn so that you are going to the nearest intersection and turn right. Merge into traffic.Right after the soccer field on your right you will see a a red brick brick building with a flowers name on it and touchdown is sitting on the letter r of this flowers name. Turn so that the intersection is right in front of you. Walk into it and turn left. There should be a red fire hydrant to your right. Walk all the way down to the end of this street. You should see three yellow posts in front of the dividers with trees in it. Turn left when you reach these posts. You should see rainbow flags in front of you to the left in the distance. Walk past these flags through the first little intersection to the next one. You should see a rainbow ice cream cone sign in front of you in a store windows next to a bunch of flowers. Turn left and you should see a tall spire in the distance. Walk toward the spire until you are next to a black fire hydrant with a white ring to your right. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant. Turn yourself so you are following the traffic and scaffolding is on your left. go straight to the intersection. Turn left at this intersection. The scaffolding will be on the left side. Go straight now, till your reach the next intersection. You will see the scaffolding is still on the left. Turn left here at this intersection. Now scaffolding will be on your left. You will see some orange construction fence on the left too. Go straight on this road, pass a yellow truck parked on the right side. Go ahead, there will be another white truck with letters on the side 2 cars ahead of the yellow truck. just right when you pass the white truck. Look to your right, There is a pink store front. Then next to the pink store, closer to the white truck, there is a store with black door. Above the door there is a black and white sign. The touchdown is in the middle of that sign  Follow the flow of traffic and go to the intersection.  Turn left and continue until you reach the next intersection.  Turn left.  While in the crosswalk of the next intersection look to the right.  There is a bike with no seat.  The bear is on top, where the seat should be.   Follow the traffic to the 3-way intersection. Turn right at this intersection. Go straight, till you reach the next intersection. You should see a store sign with black background color and white/red letters. There is also a red check mark sign on it. Turn right at this intersection. Now you will see a green truck on the left side of the road. Go straight on this road . Half way you will see a main entrance with light above the door. Then there is a green door next to it. Then there is a red door next to the green door. There is a sign on the red door, it's blue/white with letters. The touchdown is on that sign in the middle.  Turn and go with the flow of traffic for your side of the road.  In the distance you will see a tall skyscraper that appears to be under construction at the top of it, on your right. Travel until you are facing this skyscraper when you look directly right. Stop here. Just ahead, there should be a blue bridge that crosses above the road you are on. 

Look left and there should be a light pole on the other side of the road. Touchdown is on top of this light pole.  Position yourself so you can see green and scaffolding on the left. On your right should be a bank. Go with traffic. There will be a yellow cab in front of you. Go to the intersection and go right. As you go right there should be a food place on the left in red letters. On your right still is the bank, and someone is selling clothes too. Go all the way down until you're almost to the intersection but you're not yet. To the left is a bunch of posters and to the right is a really cool design on the wall in black. Look for the phones on the right. There is a black basket on top of them. The middle of that is your touchdown.  Follow the flow of traffic, You should see an intersection in front of you. Turn right at the intersection. The road will split. Follow the left road. There will be a blue bike ahead and to the left. Continue until the next intersection and then turn right. Once you have turned, continue straight forward. Go through the next intersection without turning. You will come up to another intersection with construction barrels on the right. Turn right and you should see a street sigh to the right. The touchdown is on the red octagon on the sign.  You're almost standing in an intersection where you're starting.  Turn to face the intersection, move ahead into the intersection, and turn right.  At the next intersection you come to, turn left.  Go a very short distance to the next intersection, and turn left again.  You'll have orange and white construction barriers on your right as you go down this new block.  After the construction barriers you'll have a big patch of dumpsters on your right (white and rusty dumpsters).  Stop when you're in the middle of the row of dumpsters. Turn to your left, and you'll see a green trash can.  The bear is on top of the trash can. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Just to your left will be two square signs with round red shapes and white text in them.  Go forward to the next intersection and turn right.  Immediately you should notice scaffolding ahead on the right and a yellow/red set of umbrellas to the left.  Head down to the next intersection and turn right.  You will now see black awnings to the left and a pink awning on the second floor on the right.
Turn right at the next intersection.  You should see scaffolding on both sides of you.
Keep an eye on your left and stop when you get just past three orange cones connected by orange/white beams.  Touchdown is on the orange diamond shaped sign on your right. Align yourself with the water to your left and the blue bridge in front of you. Follow the flow of traffic, passing the long beige building on your left, the tennis courts on your right and stopping after passing the brown building which was near the tennis courts. Look to your right, down below, there should be a street with a green bike lane and a small white cubed building to the left of it. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the roof of that building. Going with the flow of traffic, make your way to the first intersection and turn left.  Now on this street, go to the first intersection that you come across and turn left.  You will go almost all the way to the next intersection.  On the right hand side, there's a red and yellow building with graffiti.  Touchdown is sitting on the doorway of the open door of that building. Follow traffic to the light and go right, and go right again at the next one. You'll be on a narrow 1-way tree lined street.  You'll pass a yellow awning on your left. Stop when you're in-between white buildings on both sides shortly after it. Rotate right to look at the building there, and you'll see a small grey door inset in the wall. Above it is a metal circle. Touchdown is adhered to that. Orient yourself so the park and playground are on your right. Proceed straight through two intersections and continue down the street, passing a laundromat on your right and then a row of orange cones on your left. Keep going past the yellow school crossing ahead sign on the right until you can see the hair salon with the purple awning with yellow Asian writing. Touchdown is on top of the stool in front of the hair salon.  Follow the flow of traffic and turn left and the first intersection. You will see a building on your left with blue construction nets. Turn left at the next intersection. Go forward until you reach another intersection and then turn left again. You will reach an intersection with a purple building on your right. Turn right. There will be a green bike and blue bile. The touchdown in the middle of the the front wheel of the green bike. With the scaffolding on your right, go straight.  At the first intersection, go straight though it.  You'll turn left at the next intersection,  There will be a store to your right that is painted red.  Go straight to the next intersection and turn left again. Go straight but keep yours eyes on the right side.  There will be a business with striped awning on your right.  Touchdown is sitting in the center of the green door mat outside this business.  Follow traffic to the end of the block, then go left. Go left again at the end of that block.

You'll be walking towards a bridge. Stop when you haven't quite reached the end of the fenced in basketball court on your left, and turn to your right, to face almost dead on the second to last tree on the sidewalk on your right.

Touchdown is impaled on the little nub where a branch was on its trunk, just under the first leaves. Go the correct way down this street. When you start there should be red stairs on the left with fancy iron scrolled hand rails. Go down to the intersection and make a right turn. Once you turn there are blue awnings on your right side. Go one block and then make another right turn. Once you turn there is a very artfully decorated business to the left of you. This is a long block and you will only get about halfway down it. You will pass some fenced in green areas that are on both the right and left sides. On the left side just past the greenery the building is white on the first floor. You'll see a blue gate and some blue doors. Go past those just a little. Now look on the right side and there are several metal trashcans in front of a building that has some dusty blue on it. There is a tree right in front of that and touchdown is on the ground at the base of it.  Stand so that you are moving with the flow of traffic. Move ahead, following the path as it curves right, and at the first intersection take a left.

Now you should have a grassy area to your left. Move ahead to the next intersection and make a left again.

As you turn, there is a bright food truck with red and yellow umbrellas to your left. Move ahead about halfway down this block. When you have a light tan brick building with brown doors on your right, you are almost there. Stop at the end of this building. Face right and touchdown is on the gold trim of the double brown doors.
 Orient yourself with traffic and proceed forward, then turn right at the first light. Go through the next light and turn right at the second light. Pass the stop signs, but stop before crossing the pedestrian crosswalk on the other side. There should be a bench ahead on the right where Touchdown sits. With the fence and gates to the left, go straight and take a right at the first intersection. Go straight through the next intersection but take the off-ramp to the right. Curl around in a c-shape until you see yellow diamond shapes on a bridge ahead. Touchdown is on top of the shape that is to the left. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Turn right at the next intersection.  There's a blank blue places for store names on the right.  Go down this one way road.  You will pass a blue dumpster on the left.
Turn right at the next intersection.  When you're in the next intersection, you will see a striped awning on your right.  Below that is an orange and yellow newspaper box.  Touchdown is on the yellow one. Turn so you are facing the same direction as the parked cars, and the large green construction fence is on your left.  Proceed across the intersectiion, keeping the construction on your left, then turn left when you reach the next intersection.  The green construction should still be on your left.  Travel a short way until you reach the end of the building under construction and turn left.  Travel down that road and stop just after the orange construction sign on the right by the green construction wall.  Look to the left and you will see a lage poster with the image of a building.  There is a white painted circle to the right of that poster.  Touchdown is in the middle of the circle. You're about to make a u-turn and arrive near the same spot you're standing. Let's get started.
Face the same direction of the cars near you, with the red awning on your right, and lane divider on your left, go forward and get to the second traffic light, where you see the blue awning on your left. 
Turn so that you are facing that blue awning and go forward toward it until you are directly in front of it. Now you should be on the opposite side of the street with the cars going in the opposite direction. Turn so that the blue awning is now on your right and the divider is on your left. Follow the traffic and make a left at the second traffic light. There should now be a black store front on your right and a tan building with a silver store frame on your left. Touchdown will be on your left, on the small white sign that is at the top corner of the silver store frame. Turn so the white corner store is on you left and the blue tarp covered container is in front of you to the right. Walk straight through the next little intersection. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. You should see a large red sign in front of you to the right. Walk straight through the next little intersection and stop next to the little red sign before the cross walk of the next intersection. Face the sign. You should see an orange cone on the ground. Touchdown is on top of the cone. Start by going straight ahead with the flow of traffic. Turn right at the first intersection, there will be a red sign with white lettering on the building to your left. Turn right at the next intersection, there will be a red awning on the building to your right. Continue straight, passing a tree with golden leaves and white lights on the thin trunk, go just past the large blue trash dumpster on the right until your next to the white rental box truck directly in front of the dumpster. Turn to the left and you will see a blue moving truck backed into a building. Touchdown is on top of the short pole to the right of the truck.  Turn and go in the same direction of the traffic. Turn right at first intersection. Scaffolding on the left. Turn right at intersection. Some bright blue signs indoors on the right. When you get beside the red awning touchdown will be sitting at the center on top of the front.  Turn so the flowers are on your left. You are moving with traffic flow. Turn right at the intersection that's right in front of you. When you turn there are many planters on your left and many bikes parked on the sidewalk on your right. 

Go through the next intersection. Before you get to the next intersection, look to your left to find a black hydrant with a silver cap between two silver poles. You will be almost right in front of it. Touchdown is on top of that hydrant. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  The building on your right will be shiny white.
Turn left at the next intersection.  The building on the corner to your right will have a red marquee with white writing on it.
Go straight through the next intersection intersection just ahead.
You should see scaffolding ahead on the right, go past it.
On the left is two olive colored overhangs.  Stop at the middle of second one and you will find Touchdown hiding on a red sign on a pole to the right side of the street. Head to the intersection that is very close. There should be a large circle on the building to the right. You need to follow to the right at first then turn almost like you are heading back to where you just were. Now follow to the left. If you are going the right way a glass covered coffee shop will be on the right side of the street and a building with very small red awnings is on the left. Go to the next intersection. Go left again. As soon as you turn you will see a large piece of artwork on the left that has a dark background and white drawings. Go straight when you reach the 3 way intersection. You will continue straight again through the next 3 way intersection. When you reach the next intersection there is a construction area to the right of you that has graffiti painted on it. There is one orange barrel there. Touchdown is on that barrel. Turn until the the metal scaffolding with the large green wood siding is to your right. There should be two sets of gray doors under it. Walk straight to the next intersection and turn right. There should be two American flags in front of you to the right. Walk forward past these flags to the next intersection and turn right. There should be a blue awning to your right and a brick building to your left. Walk down this road until you are next to a large tree to your right in front of some metal scaffolding. Touchdown is at the base of the tree. Orient yourself so that the large building with reflective windows is on your right. Go straight, passing through the first (3-way) intersection. At the second intersection, turn left. 

Continue straight to the next intersection. Just past it, on your right corner is a bright orange post/structure. Touchdown is on top of the orange structure. Orient yourself so you are walking into oncoming traffic. The intersection will be behind you and trees dressed with holiday lights will be on your right. Go straight through the first two intersections and turn left at the third one. After you turn, there will be stairs to the subway on either side of you and a black sign with bright pink lettering on your right. 

Continue straight. You'll pass a large building on the right that's all glass.  Then, there will be a long vertical sign made of only letters on a building on your left. Go just a bit farther and look for the business with two black flags hanging on your right. Just before the first flag is a small blue, red, and white barber pole that's above a sign and in line with the bottom of the flag. Touchdown is on that colorful pole.  Move to the left a bit so you are in the intersection, and exit it so that you're moving with traffic and the playground is to your right. Continue to the next (3-way) intersection and turn right. At the next intersection, go right again. Immediately on your left is a purple store awning. Touchdown is in the center. Turn so you are going the correct way down this street and go to the intersection. Make a right turn and go one block. Then make another right turn. On the left side you'll see 4 short light grey poles next to 2 black fire hydrants. You will get a little more than halfway down this street. There will be some scaffolding on the left side. There is a break in it then it starts again still on the left. Then there is another part with no scaffolding then it starts yet again. At the far end of this piece of scaffolding there will be a small scaffolding across the street on the right side. Come to a stop when you are between these. Look right and there should be a green door with a window above but none next to it. This is just before the scaffolding on the right side and isn't under it. Touchdown is on the handle of this door. Enter the intersection, turn left, continue to the next intersection, and left left again.  You will pass a little gift shop on your right.  There is an intersection right after this shop, go straight.  Take your first left and pass the rental bikes.  Take the left after the bikes. Take a couple steps forward and look left.  Look above the stores and find a picture of a palm tree, the bear is on top. Orientate yourself so you are facing the closest intersection, at that intersection turn left. You will notice a building under contruction to the left, pass  that building  and proceed to the intersection and turn left. Travelling down this street you will pass some green scaffolding on your left.
At the next corner, where the scaffolding ends, make another left turn
More scaffold to the left and storefronts to the right as you travel along the street.
At the next intersection see the red building , black on the bottom with large signage on it to the right, here you will turn left and Stop.
Look to you left and see the metal trash can containing a white bag, Touchdown is sitting on top of that trash can. Position yourself so that the larger median is to your right and a smaller median is on the left. You should see an curved large glass section of a building ahead on the left. Go straight. You will continue straight through the first intersection. When you reach the next intersection, turn right. Stop immediately. There is a concrete wall to the right of you attached to a building. Two small trees are next to that building. Touchdown is at the base on the ground of the first tree closest to the concrete wall. Turn so you are heading in the same direction as traffic. Turn left at the first intersection. The arrows are a little tricky there. Once you get turned there will be trees along the street on the left side. Go straight down this long block. When you get to the intersection turn left again. Once you are turned there is a store painted white on the left side. Go forward just a small distance. On the left side just past the white store is a yellow newspaper box. Touchdown is on top of that box. From your starting position, spin around until the dark grey SUV is on your right.  You should see a green and yellow highway sign in the distance ahead of you.  Now start walking towards that sign and the skyscrapers.  It will be a long distance, so keep walking even as you pass the sign.  Keep walking straight when you reach an off-ramp.  You will want to exit the freeway as soon as you are able, so bear to your right when given a choice.  If you see a green sign ("Exit 2") on your left, you are on the right track.  Walk a little bit further until you can see three green signs with arrows ahead of you.  Touchdown the Bear is sitting on top of the largest of these green signs, right above the arrow.  If you can see the signs, but you can't see the Bear, just take one more step forward (or possibly, one step backward) and he should be visible. Turn so the nearby intersection is at your back, and the flower market is behind you and to your right.  You'll have black and white striped awnings to your left.  Go forward to the other end of this long block, and turn right.  
On this block you'll have construction scaffolding on your right.  Go forward and stop when you're even with the far end of the construction scaffolding.  If you're facing the end of the construction scaffolding, just to the left of the scaffolding is a black umbrella.  The bear is on top of the umbrella. turn around and align yourself with the garbage bins behind the fence to your left, and head down to the first intersection to make a right. A few steps up, you'll see a bus stop with a place to sit down on your right. Stop in front of the bus stop shelter and Touchdown will be on the bench in the middle. Going with the flow of traffic, go to the first light that is just past the row of blue bikes and take a right turn. You should still be going with the flow of traffic.  At the next intersection, take a right.  There will be vendors on both sides of the street.  Go straight until you get to the last food truck on the right hand side.  Right across from the green food truck that shows someone holding an umbrella, there's two traffic cones. Touchdown is hiding on the traffic cone closest to the light pole. Turn so the orange netting is to your right and follow the road, facing into the parked cars. Go straight through the first intersection, and take a right at the second.

Go forwarded until you pass a shop on your left with two barber poles next to descending steps, and the next building, with a red cayenne peper shown in its sign band.  You should be facing a store with a yellow painted door and a red haired dragon painted on the side panel.   Touchdown is dead center on the dragon's white bib, under its mouth. follow traffic to the 1st intersection and take a right, there will be scaffolding on your left and a store front with posters of broccoli in the window. Move forward until your just before the intersection, to your left there is a yellow painted square on the side walk, the bear is in the middle Should position yourself where there is a red awning with Chinese characters on your right and to your left is a yellow awning with Chinese characters. Follow the road and make a left turn at the intersection. Continue following the road till you arrive at a traffic light and make a left turn. Pass the building green awning, blue awning, and orange awning. Eventually you will arrive at a crosswalk that your standing on top of and there should be a trash bin with a white trash bag on your left. The touchdown is sitting on top of the trash bin. Turn so that there is a park to your left and you are going with traffic. You will see a traffic light in front of you, turn right at that light. Go straight down this street until you come to the first traffic light. Make another right turn. Go to the first traffic light on this road and make another right turn. You will pass by a store front with several black awnings on your left. After you pass the awnings you will see up ahead an orange cone on the sidewalk. It is sitting next to some green scaffolding. Touchdown is sitting on the top of the orange cone.  From your starting point, please turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  There should be scaffolding on your right.  Walk forward and stop in the middle of the intersection that is right in front of you.  

Turn right at this intersection.  You should now be looking down a narrow road with scaffolding on your right, with a white, orange, and blue canopy.  

Just walk straight down this narrow road, in the same direction as the cars, with the scaffolding on your right.  It will be a long straight walk, so just breeze right through until you come to an intersection.  

Walk straight through this four-way intersection.  There should be light-beige stone buildings with horizontal lines on both sides, and a payphone on your right with a purple poster.  

You are almost there, so start paying attention to landmarks at this point.  Go Forward a bit further, past the payphone, and a parked white truck with green and purple letters.  

Look to your right for mannequins in a store window, walk past that store's doorway, and stop when you are standing right next to parked white pickup truck that has a large piece of gray sheet-rock in its bed.  

Look to your left and you should see a poster in a window of a male fashion model in a black jacket.  Touchdown is sitting right on top of that man's head. Follow traffic along the one way street to the first intersection, and then go left.

At the next intersection, go left again.

To your right will be a building with steep steps and then a lot of construction scaffolding. On your left, a flag hangs on the building, and you'll see a street lamp on the sidewalk with two lights. Walk just slightly past that, and turn to your left to face the building. The street lamp should be to your left, and directly in front of you should be a light on the building. 

The touchdown is directly on top of the light.

 Orient yourself so you are facing the same direction as the flow of traffic, there should be red awnings on both sides of you.  Step into the intersection and immediately turn left.  A light brick store with lots of red awnings with white letters on them is on your right, and a row of blue rental bikes is on your left.  Go forward to the next intersection.  At this intersection, continue straight, stopping as soon as you step out of the intersection.  Rotate to your left.  There is a white store sign with green and red letters on it.  On the ground below that, there is a wooden oak barrel.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the oak barrel. With the blue building on your right, go to the corner and turn right.

Go down to the next corner and turn right. 

Continue down through the first corner and turn right at the next. 

As you reach the next corner, turn to your right and there will be a large round tan planter on the corner. Touchdown will be planted in the planter. Follow traffic to the end of the block as you go past the scaffolding to your right and building with brown awnings on your left.

Go right.  Go right again at light. Ahead on your left you'll see a red entrance canopy you'll pass. Go until you're just before the green entryway canvas with white letters on your left, and turn left, so you're staring at a white wall between the green canopy and the steel overhead loading door.  

Touchdown sits on top of the yellow bollard closest to the white pillar and green canopy. Exit street, enter intersection.  Turn right.  At fork, stay right.  Continue forward to intersection.  Follow turn towards the right, continue forward until you can turn right.  At intersection, turn right.  Then continue to next intersection.  Turn right.  Follow this path until you can turn left.    Immediately after you turn left look for the man eating lunch.  The bear is on his brown bag between his feet.   Turn so the building with the all white pillars is on your right and you are traveling with the flow of traffic. Travel to the end of this block and turn right when you each the first intersection.  There will now be a brown building on your left and a red and white striped brick building on your right.  Proceed to the next intersection and stop when you are just on the other side.  Look to the right and there is a garbage can between a dark green mailbox and the street light post.  Touchdown is in the middle of the garbage can, as if he were sitting in it. Turn so the water is to your left. As soon as you can get in the right lane, do so. Leave the highway via that right exit road. Coming to a V in the road, go right, heading downhill. Notice when the metal guard rails turn into solid concrete. After passing that area, stop in front of the first light pole on your left. It is rusty. Touchdown is sitting on the concrete at the base of the post.  Get turned so that your back is to the intersection.  On the left there is a courtyard area with lots of planters that have pink and orange flowers. Go straight all the way down this long block. At the intersection make a right turn. On your left should be a red and white striped awning. Go straight one block. Go straight through the intersection then stop immediately. On your right is a brown and white striped awning that has part of it hanging like it's ripped. There is a black trashcan on that corner. Touchdown is on top of the trashcan. Orient yourself so you're going the same direction as the traffic, and the white brick building with purple banners is on your right.  Walk forward to the intersection and turn right.  Once more, walk to the intersection and turn right.  For the last time, walk to the intersection and turn right.  There's a red brick building that has white stone horizontal lines giving it the impression that it's stripped on your right.  Walk down this road.  Keep an eye out on the left for a bright blue awning that has an orange logo and white words on it.  Stop when you're at this awning and stop.  Look at the blue awning.  Touchdown is right in the middle, where the orange and white parts meet. Turn to go with the flow of traffic on your side of the road. Watch the buildings off to your right. You are getting close when you see a large white building with black windows. Just before you reach the white building stop. If you look to your right, and down, you will see a smaller white building with a pattern in the blocks on it's roof. Directly in the middle of that roof, there is a light grey square as part of the pattern. Touchdown is in the center of that square. Go in the same direction as traffic.  There will be a store with a black awning with red and yellow lettings on it on your left.  Continue straight through the first intersection.  Turn left at the second intersection.  There will be a white block building on your left.  Go to the next intersection.  Turn left.  There will be orange and white striped construction barricades on your right.  Go down this street.  Stop right after you cross the crosswalk and enter the intersection.  Turn to your right.  There is a round, green trashcan sitting next to a pole on the corner.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the opening of this trashcan.   Turn yourself so you are facing traffic and make an immediate right at the intersection as you head down the street. There should be several red columns on buildings to your left as you head down the street.  Continue straight through T crossing intersection.  There will be construction scaffolding on your left and orange and white construction barrels and cones on your right.  As you approach the next intersection you should see a large blue awning in the left corner of the intersection. Turn left at this intersection. Touchdown will be sitting on the sidewalk in front of a gray pole with parking indicator on it.  The large blue awning will be to right of this pole. Orient yourself with the fencing on your left, and the red doors on your right. Head up to the intersection to make a right.

you want to pass through two intersections, and stop after you've just passed the second intersection. On your right there should be a yellow newspaper box leaning up against the traffic light pole. Touchdown is on top of the yellow box. Go in the direction that puts the glass building to your right and the green scaffolding to your left. Go quite some ways to the next intersection and make a right. There will be another glass building to you right and a store front with blue awnings to your left. Slightly ahead to your right will be a bus stop with glass structure and a bench, you will stop in between this and the crosswalk ahead. If you turn to the right you will see a fenced in area with a piece of heavy construction machinery inside. If you turn only slightly to your left you will see a blue mailbox on the curb. Turn to the right and look at the building that is near the fenced in area and you will see two pipes with yellow caps, Touchdown is on the yellow cap on the left, closest to the fence.  Turn to face the direction of traffic. Make a right here at the first intersection. At the next intersection, make another right. Walk down about midway to the next intersection. To your right is a tan building with large arched windows. Turn to your left, you should see a shop with plants in front, and a red and white overhang above the door. Touchdown is sitting on this overhang.  With the black benches to the right, go straight. Take a right at the intersection and pastraight some graffiti-covered walls to the left. Pastraight under the bridge and take a right. Go straight and take a right into the archway. When almost out the arch, stop. There is a red rectangle on the fencing to the left. Touchdown is in front of it. Head in the direction of traffic. Go straight through the first intersection. Turn left at the next intersection. Go straight. Stop in the middle of the next intersection. There will be a trash can on the corner to your right. Touchdown is on the label on the side of the trash can. Orient yourself so that you are facing the intersection. Use the upper right arrow to enter the ramp on the expressway with the orange construction barrier to the right of the lane. Continue on the ramp under overpasses and through a tunnel. Just before exiting the tunnel, stop. At the tunnel exit, there are two lights in the median below a sign and above a yellow box. Touchdown is on the right light.  You are almost in the intersection you need to turn left at. Turn so you see it. There will be a large tree to your right. Continue a bit then turn left at the second opportunity to turn left.
Go to the next intersection and turn left.
Go a tiny ways and turn left again at the first opportunity you get. When you turn you will see bikes and a bench on the other side of a fence on your left. 
Across the street from that bench on the left, there is a light blue umbrella on the right side of the street. Touchdown is on top of that umbrella.

 Turn so the green hedges are to your left. Move forward and turn right at the very first corner not too far in front of you.

Go down this narrow road, past the scaffolding, through the next corner, past the green fencing on the right and green wall on the left and turn right at the next corner.

Go to the next corner, which is a 3-way, and turn right as it's your only option to turn.

Go about halfway down this road. There is a fenced in parking lot on your left. On your right is a fenced in area with a little shed like building with a slanted roof. Touchdown is on top of that shed, on the front corner closest to the fencing. Orient yourself so the blue store is behind you and to your left. Proceed down this street, going straight through two lights. Turn left at the third light. Stop when you are between the two parking ramps on your left. Ahead and to the right is a church with a cross near street level. Touchdown is in the center of the cross. Face in the direction all the parked cars are pointing.  There will be a church ahead on the right.  Move to the intersection and turn right.  You'll now be on a divided road with trees and plants in the median.  At the first intersection, turn right.  You'll be on a narrow road with cars parked on both sides.  At the first intersection, again turn right.  This road will have a green painted bicycle lane on the right.  Go forwards a short distance.  There will be a fire hydrant between two posts on the right.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the hydrant. Turn to where the scaffolding is on your left. Go straight and turn left at the first intersection. Go straight past the first intersection and you'll come at another intersection, go straight a little past that one to where there is a black car in between school buses on your right. The bear is on the headlight on the black car. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic and looking at the intersection.  Enter the intersection and turn left when you can and travel up the large road with the traffic.  At the next intersection, turn left when you can and travel down this road with the flow of traffic.  At the next intersection, turn left again and go down this street with the flow of traffic.  When you reach the next intersection turn left.  Look for the store with the large red awning on it, it should be on your left.  Look on the curb in front of that store, there should be some newspaper dispensers, a yellow one, black one, another yellow one, and then a red one.  Touchdown is on top of the red newspaper dispenser. Turn until the garbage bag pile is on your right and the trees in the middle of the street are to your left. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. You want to walk down the left side of the split. Walk down the left side of the split to the next intersection and turn right. There should be a brown mail box to your right and a small red sign to your left. Walk forward through the next intersection until you reach another intersection. You should pass a bunch of garbage on your left in the process. Turn right at the intersection. There should be orange construction cylinders to your left. Walk forward to the next intersection and stop once you pass the stop sign. Turn left. You should see a green garbage can on the corner. Touchdown is on top of the can. Align yourself with the intersection in front of you. Take a right at the intersection, and another right at the next one shortly after. You want to keep right on all arrows and you'll veer in to a right turn.

After the turn, you'll see on your right a bunch of school buses and vans closed off by two orange gates. Touchdown is sitting in the middle top of the right orange gate. Orient yourself with traffic, proceed, and turn right at the light. At the next intersection, stop between the first and second crosswalks. Touchdown is in the empty trashcan in the island median to the left. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the white and orange construction barriers on your right. Continue forward to the next intersection and take a left.  you should see scaffolding with the green awning on your left and a white concrete barrier with a green fence on the right. Continue forward to the next intersection and take another left. You should see a large gray stone building on your right and  and scaffolding with a green awning on your left. Continue forward to the next intersection and take another left. You should see a row of diagonally parked cars on your left with orange and white traffic cones in front of them.  Continue forward to the next intersection and go straight. You should see orange and white construction barriers directly to your left and Scaffolding with a green awning behind that. At the end of the orange construction barriers on your left will begin a green wall with concrete barriers at its base continue forward until you are almost at the end of the green wall. Turn to your right and you will see some lettering on a marble wall there is also a small yellow sign on that wall  below the lettering. Touchdown is directly in the center of the yellow sign. Move forward with the flow of traffic. Turn left at the first intersection you come to. You want to pass through this first intersection you see and keep traveling forward for a bit. At the next intersection you come to, turn left. Immediately, Touchdown is on the right in front of a black trash can on the curb. Move with the flow of traffic into that first, close intersection and take a right turn. Now you should again be moving with traffic. Move down this longer road, passing a few stores with gold lights on each side of the street, until the next intersection, where you will take a right.

Now move past short silver posts on your right. At the next intersection, turn right again. There should be scaffolding on your left. Near the end of that scaffolding section is a white sign. Touchdown is on the middle of the sign. Go in the direction that will put the green awning to your right and the door with the ornamental black wrought iron on the left of you. Keep going straight and turn left at the next intersection. Go straight and stop in the next intersection. In front of you to the left will be a building with a red and white striped awning and in front of that building, at the corner, will be a traffic light with a dark green trash can next to it. Touchdown is at the opening of the trash can. You are near an intersection, go to the middle of the intersection and make a right. There will now be a building with green, yellow, white, and red signage on your right. At the next intersection you will make another right, there will be a temporary construction walkway on the left and that same multi colored store signage from before on the right. Go straight, pass a red with white flag on the right, pass a dark grey store front with a maroon and white sign on the left. Near the next intersection on the right is a short grey square pole with blue strip at the top, stop directly next to it. Touchdown will be right on top of that pole.  Turn so you heading down the street in the same direction as the traffic. 
When you come to the first intersection with a light pass directly through it. Keep going until you come to the next intersection.
You will see here a long green fence on the left side of the road. Take a left here. Now you see the green fence on your right and more, but different, green fencing on your left. Head down this street. Stop when you get to the end of the orange mesh barrier on the right side of the road.  You will be at an intersection. Go through this intersection. Go down this street a bit until you come to the orange and white construction barriers. Touchdown is sitting on the black circle closest to you on the last white barrier in the straight row that is closest to where the cars would ride.
 Turn so the brick wall isn on your right.  Follow traffic to the intersection ahead and turn left.  There will be a large short glass building on your right. Turn left as soon as you can, the intersection is at the start of that glass building.  After you turn there will be a parking lot on your left behind a chain fence.  Follow this road and stop when you reach the intersection ahead.  Look to the corner on the left before you enter the intersection.  There is a green sign with yellow writing to the right of the light post.  Touchdown is sitting on top of that sign, in the middle. Go to the intersection and turn right, with the scaffolding to your left. Go through the next light, and then right at the one thereafter, so you have the playground behind the fence with the yellow and green equipment on your right. Go straight through the next light.  Stop when you pass the last red awning, but before the orange and yellow one with black letters with orange shadow.  

Rotate left.  You should be facing a black awning with white letters, with a green awning with white letters to its right, and the last red awning to the left, which has a green fire escape above it.  The last rung of that fire escape just reaches the red awning. Touchdown sits atop it. Follow traffic. Go all the way to the light at the T-intersection. Go left. Go to the light. Go left and stop immediately.  

Directly ahead is an orange k-wall with a red light exactly in the middle. Touchdown is impaled upon it.
 Go with traffic, passing the red call box on your left and later colorful umbrellas on your right, to the light and go left. Go left again at the next light, and go through the small intersection to continue straight.

There'll be scaffolding on your right, but a medieval looking building to your left, with tan bricks, green framing and a green door, and a more conventional red door set in an arched brick alcove.   Stop before reaching the red door, and rotate left to face the light green awning with huge black letters, nestled between the yellow and white striped awning to the right and dark green awing with white letters on the left.

Touchdown is on the face of the statue of liberty seen through the window under the light green awning. From your starting point, please turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  You should be looking down a narrow street that has food carts on both sidewalks.  On the left the cart should have a red umbrella, and on your right, the cart should have a blue and yellow umbrella.  Walk up this street, and just keep going straight until you come to an intersection.  

Stop in the middle of this four-way intersection and turn to your left.  You should now walk down a wide, one-way street that has a small shop with red letters and a green apple logo on your left.  On your right should be blue awning with a yellow stripe and an oval logo.

Walk down this one-way street, in the same direction as traffic, and walk straight through the first intersection you come to.  

Keep moving straight, but then stop before you enter another four-way intersection.  Instead of stepping into the intersection and choosing a direction, just stay here and look to your right.  There should be three trash cans on the sidewalk.  Touchdown is sitting on the can with the green top.  Go with the flow of traffic.  There will be a brick wall and apartment buildings on your right.  Go straight for a while, watching off to your right for some basketball courts that have orange and white barricades blocking off part of them. After you pass these, stop. Turn 45 degrees to your right and look down.  You should be able to see the barricades again and three port-a-potties against a fence to the left of the court these barricades are on.  Two of these are sitting together.  The other, one, a blue, one is sitting near them but by itself.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this port-a-potty. Orient yourself with the flow of traffic. Go forward. At the first intersection, turn left. Go forward. Turn left at the next intersection. Go forward. Touchdown is in a blue suitcase on the left curb next to a pile of black trash bags. Orient yourself so that you are going in the same direction that the parked cars are facing.  There should be a row of bike parking on your left.  Go to the intersection and turn left.  There will be lots of trees on your right side.  

Go to the next intersection and turn left again.  Now there will be trees on both sides of you and a blue storefront on your right.  

Go to the next intersection.  This will be a divided street.  Pass the first chance to turn, but at the second chance, turn left.  There will be scaffolding on your right and a median on your left.  

Proceed forward until you are standing in the middle of the next intersection.  Directly in front of you are five bell shaped things on the sidewalk-- three in the front row and two in the back row.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the middle one in the front row.   Turn so that you are facing in the same direction as traffic. Walk down the street past the green construction scaffolding and awning on the right. At the end of the block, turn right to go with the flow of traffic. At the next intersection, you'll turn right again. There will again be construction scaffolding and green awning on your right. About half way down the street, you'll see more green scaffolding and awning on the right, and a building with gray cement and back wrought iron fence in front on the left. The bear is on the left in front of the brown double doors inset with glass. Turn until theres a delivery truck on your right and a mural with three heads on your left. Go this way and make a right at the first intersection with the purple awnings.. Go past the first insection until you see brown delivery truck on your right. on the left the touch down is located in the middle of the tree with the bike leaning against it. Turn to the face the intersection that is nearest you. Continue straight entering a narrow one-way street with blue rental bikes on the left and a row of parked vehicles on the right. Take a right at the first intersection, Continue to the next three-way intersection and take a right-hand turn. There will be orange barries on the right side. There is an orange dumpster. The Touchdown is on top of the last corner closest to the street.  Turn to where the brick building with a red sign is on your right. Go down the street and make a left at your first intersection. Go straight and turn left again at the next intersection. Go straight next to the blue and gray outback car on the right and a white van with a guy wearing a yellow vest in front of that. The bear is on the taillight closest to you on the white van with the guy wearing a yellow vest. turn yourself on the street way, on the light turn right go straight, pass the red canopy on the right, keep going straight pass the second store with a red canopy on the right, keep going straight u will see a third store with a red canopy on the right, keep going straight, you will see a blue bike tide on a pole on your left side, the touchdown will be over the bike. Go straight with the green wall to your left. There is an intersection with a bunch of orange cones in it. Go straight through it. Go straight through the next intersection which has a bus park to the right. Finally, pastraight under the bridge and stop at the intersection. Touchdown is in front of the first cone to the right. Go with traffic with the red stripe to your right.  Go right at the light. Go right at the 3-way intersection before getting to the next light.  The small fenced in treed park will be on your right. At the stop sign, go right.  Stop just a step past the crosswalk without going further into the intersection.  Across the street, in front of the grey building with the blue emblem, is a blue mailbox. Touchdown sits atop and center upon it. Get turned so the brick building is on your left and all the yellow color is on your right.  Go to the intersection and make a left turn. There will be a brown and white striped awning on the right side. Go straight one block. Make another left turn. There will be a green wall with orange and white construction barriers on the left side. You will only go about halfway down this long block. As you go you will see a purple, pink and white painted design on the right side. When you come to the green scaffolding on the right you are just about there. There is a green dumpster on the right. Go until you are just past it then stop. On the left are some purple and white flowers with a bike locked up next to them. Touchdown is at the base of the tree in the flowers. Orient yourself with the flow of traffic. The white and yellow road barriers should be on your right. Go straight until you come to the intersection with the parking lot of the right. Turn right and go straight. Continue straight until you come to an all glass building. Take a slight right at this building. The glass building should be directly to your right and there will be cones in the middle of the road. Keep going until you come up to the main entrance doors of the building on your right. There will be 4 huge concrete pillars on your left. Move forward until you can see the last two green smaller cylinders in front of the giant concrete one. Touchdown will be sitting on the last cylinder.  Align yourself with the red awning store on your left, it should be down the road with the only bus lane. Make a left at the first intersection , and head about halfway down this street. Pass the construction on your right and you should see a blue storefront right after. Touchdown is in the middle of the neon lit sign of the blue storefront. Turn towards the intersection and the flow of traffic.  Step into the intersection.

Turn right and you'll see bikes on the right.  Go forward.

At the next intersection turn right.  This will put a brown awning ahead on your right and a light green awning directly to your left.  Go forward.

You'll pass a national flag on the right.  Keep going.

Eventually you'll end up in another intersection with rainbow banners/streamers on the left corner ahead.

Touchdown is on the larger rainbow banners on the corner near the ground. Stand so that you are walking with the flow of traffic. Move forward to the intersection and turn left. Move to the next intersection and turn left again. Move forward, and after curving to the left, on your left is a green dumpster. Touchdown is on the dumpster. Position yourself so you can see the do not enter signs and the orange construction materials to the right. Take a left at the intersection. Follow that road until you see the bus bench on your left. The touchdown will be the top of the orange cone closest to you.  Hello. Please orient yourself with the flow of traffic. You will be near a three-way intersection. There will be white and gray brick buildings to your right side with green dumpsters and a red door. 

Walk forward into the three-way intersection. Turn left. 

There will be a brick with cement top barrier to your right side. You will pass some white signs with red accents as well as a red sign with white letters as well.

Walk forward until you reach the four-way intersection. Turn left again.

You will see orange and white construction cones on your right side. Walk forward on this path. You will pass a large parking lot full of buses with black iron fences to your right side. 
Keep going forward until you reach the next intersection. Turn left once more.

Walk forward to the next intersection. As you enter it, you will shift to the right. Once you are in the center of the four-way intersection, turn left.

Walk forward slowly. You will see a gray building with columns to your left side. To your right side, there will be a brown brick building with orange signs and white letters. 

Focus on your left side for a large orange accent wall on the dark gray building with columns. It will have white letters on it. When you are standing just beyond that orange wall, you will see a pole with a red and white sign. Beneath this pole, there is a bicycle leaning against it. 

Touchdown will be on the seat of the bicycle on your left side near the pole. Good luck! Turn yourself so you see the suspension bridge in front of you and start down the street.  Continue straight passing under the bridge  As you pass under the bridge, you will see a a sports field on your right.  As you near the sports field you will see the the back of a sign which is gray.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the sign. Turn so you're following traffic past scaffolding on both sides of the wide road to the end of the block, and go left.   You're going to walk almost to the end of the long block you're on, stopping just after you pass the last tree on the sidewalk on your right.

If you turn right, you should be facing a grey building, with red brick for the second level, and a long tall glass window to the left of two doors tied open with straps.  To the right of the doors is a square red metal pipe plate with two yellow caps inset in it on the wall.  Touchdown is centered between the two caps..
 Position yourself where you should notice a building with an advertisement of a watch on your right if you look around. Head in that direction and eventually you should arrive at a traffic light. Make a right turn and continue forward until the road curves to the right. Head to the right following the curve and you should notice in the middle of the road is a ton of traffic cones. Pass the traffic cone till your position between two boards and on each side there is a trash can on your right. The touchdown is sitting on the trash can near the entrance. Turn to move with traffic,go to the 1st intersection and take a right. there will be a store front with a red awning on the left. Continue straight to the 4 way intersection and take a right, There will be a restaurant painted in green on the left.go to the next intersection and take a right. There will be signs on both sides that are yellow with a red circle, pass them and ahead on the right is a wooden door with a half circle arch above it, the bear is on the door handle You're practically standing in an intersection when you start.  Of the four corners of this intersection, one has a flower market, one has construction scaffolding, one has small gray awnings, and the other has a store with brown trim and white panels over the windows. Move into the intersection, and turn so you'll be walking between the corners with the construction scaffolding and the brown trim with white panels. Go in that direction, and you'll be walking along a bright red wall on the left (with a brown door in that wall).   This is your target block. After you get past the construction scaffolding you're on a residential street with lots of steps leading up to front doors.  Eventually you'll come to a church on your left.  Pass the church, then stop when you're even with the first set of porch steps past the church.  This set of steps leads up to gray double doors.  The bear is on the doorknobs of those doors.  From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the orange and white chimney is behind you.  You should see a red and white striped awning on your left.  Walk down this narrow street.  

Walk straight past the side street on your left, and keep moving forward toward a green awning up ahead on your right, and then ignore the next side street on your right.  Just keep moving forward toward a white sign up above a shop with a blue pig on it.  When you are next to the shop with that sign (and a blue and white awning) turn to your left and take the side street.  There should be a red brick wall with windows and purple trim on your left.  

Move straight down this narrow street.  Pass an empty lot behind a gray wall with a blue gate on your right, keep going forward, and then stop when you reach an intersection with a red hexagon sign.  

Turn to your right at this small intersection, and walk forward a step into the middle of a much larger intersection.  Turn to your left in this large intersection, and look down a large one-way road, so that you are facing the same direction as all the cars.  There will be a silver food cart on your right with red signs.  

Move forward down this wide road.  There will be a white "shooting star" decoration hanging from a lamppost on your right as you go.  

Stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to.  There will be a building with white columns ahead and to your left.  On the corner to your left, in front of that building, will be a vertical red post.  Touchdown is sitting right on top of that post. Turn so you going with the flow of traffic. Head down the street to the traffic light. Take a right at the light. You will a gold clock on a post on the right side of the street. Go through the two lights that are close together here.  When you come to the next intersection continue to go straight.  Head down the street stopping before the crosswalk at the next intersection. You will see an american flag across the street on the left. To your right you will see a dark colored mailbox . Touchdown is sitting on top of this mailbox.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Go all the way down to the first intersection and turn right.  You should see a long blue awning jutting out towards the street.  Go down this street 
Turn right at the next intersection and you will see orange and white cones on the left.
Go down the street, just past the blue awning.  Directly on your right is a pole with a blue circular sign at the top.  Touchdown is on that sign. Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Move ahead to the intersection, and turn right. You will then travel straight through 2 intersections. At the third, turn right. You should now have on your left a store with black sign and bright red letters, with some orange construction barriers in front of it. On your right should be a light tan building. Go straight a bit, and shortly past the tan building is a street pole with a red and white sign and a red arrow. Touchdown is on the sign. Face in the direction that puts the large green space in on your right. Go down the street and at the first intersection turn left. Go straight to the next intersection, there is a painted blue brick building on the left side. At that intersection, turn left. Continue down that road, you will come to a mature tree and a yellow diamond sign on the right side, continue past that. On the right side of the street is a black wrought iron fence in front of a white door. The Touchdown is at the base of the white door.  Turn so you are heading with the flow of traffic.  Take the second right.   There will be a vendor on the right side as you turn.  Take this to the next intersection and turn right.  At the next intersection go left, but then head forward into oncoming traffic.  Top when you have a 3 way option (Before you enter the next intersection).  Look left.  There is a closed store with a fence protecting it.  The frame is red.  There is a yellow square on the door, the bear is there. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic so that the black awnings are on your right and the black and white umbrella is on your left.  Go through the immediate intersection and turn right at the next intersection.  This should put scaffolding on the corner of the building to your right.
Go straight, passing the tall scaffolding structure covered in blue netting.
Turn right at the next intersection which will put scaffolding on your left.
Go forward a bit and you'll move rapidly to the left.
Stop when this happens and you will see directly in front of you a broken planter box and a few steps with black rails. Touchdown is in the broken planter box right of the stairs. Turn so that the store front with the diamonds are to your right and the cars are coming at you. Go forward and make a left at the intersection, where you see the three plants on your left side. Go against the traffic, stop before the second intersection where you see the pink framed display window on your left. Touchdown is on the ground, in front of the bottom center of that display window.  You should start by following the flow of traffic. You will see a huge line of people on your left. Continue down this road until you hit the intersection and then take a left. You should see kind of a tanish and brown brick building on your right and red brick building on the left with a big blue door. Go down to the intersection and take a left. You will see a brick building on the left with blue metal doors and this newer nice looking building on the right. Go down until you see that gate with the circle on it to your left. Your touchdown is the center of that.  Move forward in the same direction as traffic. Do not turn at the first road that shows up to the left almost immediately. Go straight.  At the next intersection where there is a road to the right, go straight again. The next intersection has a road to the right again. Turn right onto that road. You will see blue bikes lined up on the left hand side as you go down the block. Keep going straight through the next intersection you come to. When you reach the second intersection turn right. You will be on a narrow one way brick road. Go straight until you get to the next intersection then stop. On that corner to the right there is an orange traffic barrel. Touchdown is on top of that barrel. Turn so you are heading down the street with traffic. There is a median with shrubbery to your left. At the light take a left. There will be another light right after that and take a left again. You will see some graffiti on your right. Go straight down this street. You will pass a park on the left side of the road. Stop at the intersection you come up to. There will be a store with a red awning across the street. Touchdown is sitting in front of this business on the black and white street sign with an arrow on it.  Going with the flow of traffic, go to the first intersection and turn right.  The scaffolding should be on your left hand side now.  Go to the next intersection and turn right.  After you pass all the construction barriers on the right hand side, Touchdown won't be too much further.  There's a red awning on a building on the left hand side right past a motorcycle.  Touchdown is hiding on the center of the red bars on the door. Turn with the flow of traffic and head down this road through the curves.  When you see the fork, stay right and enter the small tunnel.  Stop right when you enter daylight.  Look left.  There is a fire hydrant in the wall with a yellow circle.  The bear is on the yellow circle.   Align yourself with the flow of traffic. Go straight ignoring the turn. Five staps forward, you should see a garbage truck on your left, and a store with a yellow and red sign. Touchdown is on the white dripping graffiti on the left can in front of the store. Turn so the purple flags are on your left and you can follow the flow of traffic.  Proceed down this road to the first intersection and turn right. There will be a glass building on your right now.  Follow traffic past the first intersection.  Stop when you are in the middle of the lowest level of the green construction on your right.  There is a single light post in between the two light colored signs on the green wood.  Touchdown is sitting on the top of the post straight up from the green wood. Face the intersection, enter it, and turn left. Turn left at the next light too. Make a left at the first light on this new road also. Stop when you reach the end of the scaffolding on your left. There should be a green mailbox by a tree and Touchdown is on the top of the mailbox. Go with traffic flow and turn right at the first corner. 

Still with traffic flow, go to the first corner and turn right.

Go all the way down this road, past a red store to the right with large red awning, keep going to the first corner and turn right.

Go down to the next intersection and while in the center, look to your right. There is a large red fire pole with cardboard laying around it. The top is kind of pointy and Touchdown is on top of that point.  Orient yourself with the flow of traffic and the bus lane sign in front of you.go to the end of the intersection and take a right in to traffic.Go to the middle of the next intersection and take a left, then the next left, with two taxis in front of you.You should see a white bus in front of you if you're in the right place. Follow the bus all the way down to the intersection. You should see a blue stand most likely a phone booth next to a Postal Service drop slot and a yellow paper dispenser. Touchdown is in the blue on the phone booth. But the building with the blue trim windows on your left and move forward through the intersection. Once you're through it, take the next right. Move forward a little. Just before the next right turn, Touchdown is standing with a group of people on the left-hand median, in a dip in the curb. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic with the orange/white barriers and scaffolding to your right.
Head down to the second intersection and turn right.  You should see some work being done to a manhole right in front of you.  Go forward.
Stop at the next intersection.  Ahead on the right you should see a black trashcan, blue mailbox and newspaper boxes that are yellow and orange.

Touchdown is on the black trashcan. Go with traffic to the nearest intersection. Turn right at the intersection. Keep straight at the next intersection.  Turn right at the next intersection.  Turn right again at the next intersection. You will be going toward an overpass.  Stop soon as the overpass is above you. Look left to the first light at the entrance of the overpass. Touchdown is sitting on the lens of the light.  Turn and go in the direction with traffic. There will be a bicycle painted on the street in front of you.A gate to the right with 2 yellow poles. Turn right at the intersection. You'll see some construction garbage to the left.  Look to the right on a gate and you'll alot of signs. Touchdown is on the yellow and black sign in the middle. Orient yourself with the flow of traffic and so the park is on your right. At the end of the block, take a left and then a left at the next intersection as well. Passing a blue painted brick building with a red awning on your left, there is a boarded up store with graffiti covering it and orange cones stored under a roll-up door. Touchdown is on the base of the cones.  Turn to face the intersection, and the painted aliens will be on your right side. At the intersection, go left. You may enter the left hand lane, but keep walking on this street. At the next intersection, go left. A water scene will be painted on the second story of the bldg to your right. Almost at the next intersection, see a pink sign on your right, stopping just before reaching it. Touchdown is on the circle with a face in it on that sign.  If you are in the correct position there should be a building of several green awnings to your left. On your right will be a building that is mostly gray.
Now please head straight, and cross through the first intersection.
You will travel straight and so you reach the next intersection at which point you will make a left turn. There should be a brick building which has white and brown bricks on your right. In your left is a brick building which has red bricks and blue double doors.
Head straight and into the next intersection. If you look across the street to your left you will see a subway entrance. Touchdown is sitting in front of the stairs on the sidewalk. Follow traffic to the light. Go right. Go right again at the next light. Stop when the light brown building with the green entry canopy is to the right.  Rotate right. There are six black lids on a long black dumpster. Above it is a light between two windows. Touchdown is atop the light. Align yourself with the flow of traffic. Go past the first intersection, and continue down the road. A few steps before the next intersection, you should see a big blue sign at eye level on your left, in between a red bricked building and a black modern building. Touchdown is on the P of this sign. Turn so the black awnings are on your left and the intersection is behind you. Go all the way down this road, going straight through the 3-way intersection. 

Before you get to the next intersection there are more black awnings on your left. Just before the corner are two round planters on the left that have evergreens planted in them. Touchdown is on top of the plant that is closest to the intersection in front of you. Move with traffic, at the 1st intersection go straight. At the second intersection take a left, you will be moving down a one way, there will be orange signs on your right. You will pass a red brick building with blue lights at the doorways. You will pass an orange awning on your left, you will pass an underground parking garage on the right. The building past the parking garage has a red sign on it with two white ones under the red, the bear is on the red. There is a hydrant under them To your right should be a gas station the color of their logo and most of their icons is green. To your left is a gray building is black doors that have glass in them and lots of windows. Looking directly ahead on your left you'll see a yellow building. On your right in front of the gas station you should see a billboard with blue letters and a bunch of people. Once you are here go straight. Go to the first intersection and make a left. Head straight until you reach the next intersection. On your left will be a building with a gray and red sign with right of words. If you go just past that building and turnaround facing the direction you came from you will see a sign that is white with a red circle and white letters touchdown is sitting directly in front of that sign. On your love should be a building that is gray large glass windows and a blue sign. On your right is a brick building with a large sign out front on the corner almost that is blue with white and yellow letters. Head into the intersection. Now make a quick left. Continue straight so you get to the third intersection. Now make a left. When you make your left there will be a children's playground on the right. On the left is a large fence surrounding a basketball court. Continue straight for a short distance. On your right you will see a sign that is very small it is red with white letters touchdown is sitting directly in front of the sign. Proceed down the road with the two newspaper stands on the right. Take a right at the building with green scaffolding.Proceed straight until reaching a red ladder on the right. Increment past the ladder until reaching the end of the green scaffolding to the right. Touchdown is next to a black fire hydrant to the right. Turn so that the white and orange dividers are to your left. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left. You should see an orange diamond sign to your left. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left. There should be trees on your left. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left. There should be scaffolding on your right. Walk forward past the silver stand on the sidewalk to the left. Face right. You should see a blue piece of paper stuck on the scaffolding pole. Touchdown is in the middle of the paper. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the white brick building on your right. Continue forward to the next intersection and take a right. On your right there will be a red brick building with a mural painted on the wall. Continue forward down the street moving through the  rows of parked cars to the next intersection. Take a right. You should see a tan brick building with green awnings on your left and an outdoor patio area on the right. Move forward to the next intersection stopping when you are in the middle of the intersection. Turn back and  to your right and you will see a gray light pole with a green box on it. Touchdown is sitting at the base of the gray light pole. Head to the first corner and turn left,head down the street that has a building on the right side with 4 blue awnings,you want to stay to the left of the fork in the road.Proceed two streets and turn left down the one way street so that you are going with the flow of traffic.At the first street turn right.Touchdown is sitting next to the blue paper box on your right. Orient yourself so you are moving with traffic. Move ahead to the first intersection, just past a store with orange and pink sign on your right, and take a right turn. Now continue to the next intersection and turn right again.

Now you should have scaffolding on your right, with red and white signs on the top border of it. Move past this scaffolding, and then to another section of scaffolding on the right. When you are nearing the end of this section, on your right there will be a gray post with a blue stripe. Touchdown is on top of that post. Orient yourself so you are going with traffic. There will be a fedex truck on your left. Move straight,  past the first intersection.

Looking to your left you will see two trees, and two big white flower pots. The first pot has a bush in it. the touch down is in the second one (the one thats empty.) right on top of it. Turn so the playground is on your left.  Go past the playground and the paved open space next to it.  After the fence to the schoolyard ends, there is an open gate with some parked cars.  Just past that, there is a narrow building with a rock facade and black gates.  Stop when you're even with this rock building.  In the rock facade, there is a set of double wooden doors, and to the left of that a single wooden door.  The bear is in the center of the single wooden door. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
On the right will be a covered walkway sticking out from the building that has a bunch of lights hanging from it.  Hang a left at the intersection where the scaffolding is.
Head down this road, past the bright red store front and turn left at the next intersection.  There will be a boarded up building on the left above some black signs.
Hang one last left at the next intersection and you will have more scaffolding on your left and a white building with arches on the right.  Head forward until you're next to the ornate entrance of the white building on the right.  On each side are pipes coming out of the ground.  Touchdown is hiding on the one to the left that has green caps. Align yourself with the flow of traffic. Head down to the intersection, and make a right. Shortly after, you'll make another right at the first intersection.

Head down this street, and you should be in a tunnel like loading dock for delivery trucks. A step before the only truck loaded in to a bay, you should see a black and silver topped fire hydrant on your left, opposite of the truck. Touchdown is sitting on top of the hydrant. Turn so you are going with traffic. At the light go straight. Go one block and take a left. There will be store with a logo on the right that is a red box with a white plus sign in it. Go straight passing by the side street to your right. At the light Go straight stopping before you get to the sidewalk on the other side of the street. Touchdown is sitting on top of the red newspaper box on the right side of the street.  Follow the flow of traffic and turn left at the second intersection. Keep going and then go straight through the next intersection and stop. To your left there is a maroon sign with white letters on it above the green awning. The touchdown is on the 'W'/ Align yourself behind the moving van. Go past the first quick intersection, and make a right at the next one. Follow this down, and make another right. Take the next right down this road. Halfway down, you should see a silver SUV. Touchdown is on the gas cap of the SUV. Orient yourself so that you have scaffolding that has a blue tarp hanging down into a dumpster on your right.  Go to the first intersection and take a right turn.  There will be two green mailboxes under the scaffolding to your right.  Go to the next intersection and take a right turn.  Proceed to the next corner and take one last right turn. The business on your left has green lettering.  You'll pass some scaffolding on your right.  When the next set of scaffolding starts, there will be a bunch of trash on the curb.  Touchdown is sitting on the curb leaning up next to the center back of an old chair. Follow the flow of traffic and go to the intersection (Keep bridge on your left).  Turn right.  Playground on the right corner.  Continue straight until the road T's (ends).  Turn right.  Take one step forward.  on the right there is a bike chained to a pole.  Bear on the seat.   Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  Go straight until you get to an intersection with a large mural on the building ahead on the right (it's white at the top, people in the middle, white at the bottom).

Turn left. Step forward so you're in the opposite lanes.  Complete the u-turn on the street.

Go straight until you get to the intersection with a building painted yellow at the bottom and bricks on top on the right side of the road.

On that corner, there's a waste bin.  Touchdown is on this waste bin. You're starting right near an intersection.  Turn so you're facing that intersection, and you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street.  Move forward and straight through the intersection.
Go one short block to the next intersection, and turn left.  You'll now have blue awnings on the right side of the street.  
Go forward to the next intersection (it's a long block), and make another left.  On this new block you'll have a green bike lane along the left side of the road, and you'll be walking with the flow of traffic.  On the left side of the street are trees with little black fences surrounding them.  Count the trees as you go.  Walk forward until you're between the third and fourth tree (the fourth one is noticeably skinnier than the third one).  There is a fire hydrant between the third and fourth trees, and the bear is on top of that hydrant. Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic, into that close intersection. Continue straight through the intersection and move until you reach the next one; turn right. Move to the next intersection and go right again. When you reach the next intersection, move into it and ahead to your left is a green trash can. Touchdown is on top. Turn so the building with the globe shaped lights are on your right. Go down the street. Take a right at the light. On your right will be red sign above a store. Goo straight one block. At the next light take a right. In about a block you will see a building with a maroon colored awning. It has another awning jutting from the front door with brass colored poles holding it up. To the left is a mailbox. Touchdown is sitting on the top middle of this mailbox.  Turn so the black iron fence is on your right and you are looking at a more open space ahead where you can see water.  Travel to the intersection and turn right.  The open space will be on your left now.  Follow that road, it will join with a highway.  Keep following as it curves slightly to the right and stop when you are under the bridge.  Look to the right and there are three red brick pillars.  Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the blue spray paint on the pillar in the middle. Go with the traffic.
Turn right at the intersection.
Turn right at the next intersection.
Turn right again at the next intersection.
Just before entering the next intersection, there is a one way sign on the right.
Touchdown is on the word ONE on the sign.

 Face the same direction as traffic and go straight. Go all the way down to your first intersection. There will be a bank with a blue and yellow sign on your right. Turn right at this intersection and go down to the next intersection. Take a right at this intersection. There will be scaffolding with a green awning on your right. Go straight until you get even with the end of the scaffolding. Turn right and you will see the metal poles from the scaffolding and a phone booth right next to it. Next to the phone booth is a mailbox. Touchdown is sitting on the mailbox.  Follow traffic, with the orange k-walls to your right, and go left at the second light.

With the scaffolding to your left, go to the next light and left.  Stop after passing the black entry canopy and stone arch over a black glass door on your right.  Rotate right, and you should be facing the brown framed window between the first and second white square pillars of the last building on the right.  

There's a blue poster with an inset image of the white building. Touchdown is exactly center of the window, not the poster.  Align yourself with the flow of traffic, the white sign with a star on it should be on your left. You'll make three right turns at each of the first intersections you run across.

At the third right turn, you should see and pass by an American flag on a stone building to your right.Go in tot he next intersection, and you should see a wide topped trash can on your right at the next corner. Touchdown is sitting on top of the can. Turn and face the intersection. Go straight across traffic in order to take the left hand turn. You will see a tall spire in the distance ahead on the left. Instead of going that far, turn left at the first intersection. There are pictures of people on the corner to your right, and restaurant seating on the corner to your left. Walk ahead. You will come upon a little red storefront on your left, with a small chalkboard out front, as well as a small green umbrella. Walk just past the umbrella, stopping directly in front of the building to the left with iron bars over the windows. It has a brown door with white paint on it. Turn to face the door, and Touchdown is sitting on top of the light above the door.  Align yourself so that the four white tipped bells are on your right. Head straight through the intersection. At the next intersection, you'll veer slightly right but keep straight in the opposite lane of the same road. Step in to this last intersection, and on your right should be a couple of construction barrels in front of blockades. Touchdown is on the barrel with duct tape on it, the right one, at the top. Move with the flow of traffic, past the blue awning on your right. At that first intersection, turn right. That blue awning will now be on your right again. Now move forward along this long tree-lined street. You will have a lot of scaffolding on your left. At the next intersection, turn right again. Watch the left side of the road--soon there is a phone booth, followed soon by a green mailbox and a fire hydrant. Touchdown is on top of the mailbox. Go with traffic and right at the light.  Go right again at the next one. Go right again at the one after that; a building with black awnings and umbrellas will be on your right.  Go into the middle of the next intersection, and one step left.

Rotate left, so you're facing down the left-hand street.  On the left corner is a red-topped call box.  Touchdown is atop it. You start right next to an intersection.  Move into that intersection and turn left.  You'll go past a large parking lot full of buses on your right.  After the parking lot will be a junction: go straight through it.  Just after the intersection will be an entrance on the right to an area with curving ramps.  Go forward to the far side of this entrance and stop.  You will see signs with a person and a bicycle with red lines through them  Touchdown is in front of the sign with the person. Orient yourself so that you are facing an intersection directly in front of you.  Enter that intersection and turn left.  There will be purple awning off to your left now.  Go straight; turn left at the next intersection.  Head down this street.  When you cross over the pedestrian crosswalk halfway down the street, slow down.  Watch for the car parking lot off to your left.  After you completely pass this lot, stop.  Turn 90 degrees to your right.  At the top of the green pole in front of you is a circular blue sign with a bus on it.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this circular sign, above the bus.   Moving in the direction of traffic, head towards the intersection. Turn left. At the three way intersection, turn left again. Stop just after you pass the red door on the right and the word painted on the street. Directly to your left is a black fire hydrant. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant. Turn and go in the same direction as the traffic. Orange and white barricades to the left. Turn right at the red light. Yellow Dumpsters to your right. Turn right at the intersection. Brown and tan striped building to the right. Turn right at red light. There will be bike parking on the left. There will be a couple of red awnings on the left. There is some chairs sitting outside and touchdown is sitting in the first chair.  Orient yourself with traffic, proceed to the light, and follow the bend in the road to the left. Go straight at the next light. Pass trees with wooden barricades on the right. Pass a building with an orange awning on the left. Pass a building with a domed green awning on the right.Stop just before the entrance to a parking garage on the right. Touchdown is on the red arrow of the white side for this parking garage. Go straight with a tall chain link fence to your right. There are blue benches to your right. Go straight. There is a park ahead. Take a right. Go straight and bear right. There is a barrier to your left and murals to your right. Go straight past the playground until you see a building with two brown lower floors and brick upper floors. There is an open chain link fence gate. Touchdown is sitting on the gate. Follow traffic to the intersection and go left.  Proceed down the one-way street with traffic, passing scaffolding on your right as you go to the end of the block.

Go left again. You'll pass a fenced in play area to your left as you proceed to the end of the block.

Make another left. Clear the play area and the building after it, until you see an opening in the black fencing on your left.

Touchdown is centered on the black top of the red square bin behind the black fencing to the left of the opening. Turn until the garbage bags are to your left and the scaffolding is to your right. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left. There should be a painting of a dog on the left side of the street. Walk forward to the middle of the next intersection. Turn to your left. You should see a green garbage can with an orange cylinder to its left in front of a painting of food. Touchdown is on top of the garbage can. Turn so are facing the direction of moving traffic. Go straight. When you get to the intersection, turn right. Go straight until you reach an intersection. Turn right. Go straight, passing trees on both sides of the road. Continue straight until you reach an intersection, turn right. Go straight down this one way street towards a bridge up above the road. You will come to an intersection just before the bridge. Look to the right and you will see several large pots with plants in them. Touchdown is sitting on top of the last plant.  Turn until the American flag on the building is to your right. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. There should be two more American flags on your right. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left. There should be green scaffolding to your left. Step forward into the crosswalk. To your right there should be a black and silver fire hydrant. Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant. Position yourself so you're moving with the flow of traffic. There will be a food vendor with a blue and yellow umbrella just ahead on the left. Directly in front of you is an intersection. Turn right there. After you turn, the business just ahead on your left will have a hot pink sign and pictures of cartoon characters in some of the many windows. 

When you reach the next intersection, turn right again. After you turn, there will be a big bright green sign with a teddy bear wearing a pink bow on your left. Take this street all the way to the next intersection.  When you see a long red wall on your right, you're almost there. 

When you get to the intersection, stop before going through. If you're standing on the crosswalk, look to your right, and you'll see a red rectangular pole next to a green traffic light pole. Touchdown is sitting right on top of the red pole.  Go with traffic (keep the basketball courts on your right)
Turn right at the intersection. (basketball courts will still be on your right)
At the intersection, turn to the right (there are two right turns, you want the one with the green and blue mail boxes in front of a large red brick building on the right when you make the turn..)
Stop right before you have to turn at the next intersection.
On the corner,left side, there is green wire trash can.
Touchdown is on top of the trash in the can.
 From your starting point, please turn around so that the intersection is behind you and you are facing the same direction as the parked cars on your street.  The row of short black posts should be on your right.  

Walk forward, and keep going straight, passing right over a crosswalk as you go.  You will see a yellow, diamond-shaped sign on a pole on your right, and soon thereafter you will come to another crosswalk.  Turn to your left in this intersection, and walk toward the large stone building with the columns.  

Walk over the crosswalk, and follow the road as it curves around, and stay on this road so that the building with the columns stays on your right.  

After you walk over another crosswalk, just keep moving straight, so that a green lamppost is on your right and a row of short green poles is on your left as you proceed.  Keep moving straight, and go straight through the large intersection that you come to.  On the other side of the intersection, there should be scaffolding on your right, and three trash cans with blue, black, and green lids on your right.  

Walk a short distance further, pass the large gray stone building on the right, but then stop before you enter the next intersection.  If you look to your right, you should be standing next to the front wheels of a parked red sedan and a small white and red sign on a pole.  

Look in front of you, out into the intersection.  Ahead, and to your right, is a square orange sign with black lettering and an arrow.  Touchdown is sitting right on top of this sign.   Go WITH flow, with the grey vendor sheds to your right, up the one-way street. Go through the first light you come to, but  STOP at the crosswalk after it. You will have just passed a bunch of stacked metal fences on your left. 

Look to your right and ahead, for an empowered female towering over the intersection, her poster being above huge stylized green dimensional letters.
FIND Touchdown sitting on her face.  Align yourself with the intersection directly behind you, and the two red signs in front of you. Head to the intersection and make a right.

Make another right at the next intersection, and head all the way down to the final intersection and stop. In front of you on your left, you should see a shuttered building with a mural on it, and to the left of that is a green box on the pole. Touchdown is sitting on the cup on that green box. Go with the flow of traffic and make a right turn at the first traffic light.Make a right turn at the next light.On your left right after you turn you will see a neon green bike,Touchdown is in the center of the green bike. Go with the flow of traffic to the light and take a right turn. Go straight through the next light. At the next intersection, turn right.   There will be a grey building to your right. The business on the corner has a red logo.  There will be some traffic barriers shortly ahead.  Veer to the right here and then follow traffic off on to the other road. There will be a bump ahead in the road.  Touchdown is sitting on the right on top of a fire hydrant shortly before you get to the bump. Turn so the orange-and-white striped construction barrier is on your right.  Move forward to the intersection just ahead of you, and turn right.  Go straight through one intersection.  The next intersection is a T-intersection - go straight through that one, also.  Then go straight through a third intersection, but stop when you've JUST made it through the intersection (you haven't even passed the crosswalk yet). On your right side, there is a white cement planter with a rounded bush in it.  The bear is on top of that bush. Go with the flow of traffic, you'll have a few traffic cones next to your.  Veer right at this fork ahead in the road. There's a van parked on the right that has eggplants on it. At the intersection ahead, take a right turn. Now on this block, stay to the right so that you can turn right at the light. You'll be going with the flow of traffic, and you will have a playground to your right. Go straight through the next two intersections. There will be a red pole to your right.  There will also be a fire hydrant on your right.  Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant. Turn yourself so an orange construction fence is on your left and start down the street.  Turn left at intersection.  As you approach next intersection, there will be an orange newspaper bin on your right.  Go straight through intersection.  You will see a gray fire hydrant with a red top on the sidewalk on your right as you travel through the intersection.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the hydrant. Get turned so the water is to your left and head down the road. You will go under some large green road signs. Keep going. Just as you go underneath the large bridge get onto the exit. Follow that as it curves around underneach another bridge overhead. Right when you get to where the road splits are some orange barrels. Touchdown is in the middle of the blue sign above those. Start by turning so there is a store with a gear on the sign to your left and a coffee cup on the sign to your right. Walk forward. At the first intersection, make a right. Make another right at the next one. Walk down the block until you find a break in the buildings to the right. There is a small staircase leading into the first store after the break. Touchdown is sitting on the steps. Go with traffic flow through the first intersection and turn right at the next one. 

There is a brick building on your right and an elevated road to your left. 
Continue down this road. Work your way past the next turn option to keep going straight so the elevated road stays to your left and brick building to your right.

At the next intersection, turn right and stop. There will be a playground with kids off to your right. On your left is a brick building with a red door. On the street, as you look to your left, is a hydrant that Touchdown is sitting on top of. That hydrant is actually situated on the street you just turned off of.
 Situate yourself so you are going the correct way down the one way street. A building with green on the bottom part is to your left. Go straight until you reach the intersection. Turn right and head down that road. You will be going the correct direction. Head straight until you reach the next intersection. On the left corner you will see newspapers boxes one is yellow one is red. Touchdown is on top of the red box. Orient yourself so that the water is behind your right shoulder. Move forward, through the intersection, and continue straight. You'll be walking by orange and white barriers on your left. Continue  through the first intersection you come to (with the street to the left blocked off). Continue until you reach the next intersection, and turn left. On your right you'll see a section of green scaffolding, and at the end of it are 2 yellow signs with red writing. Touchdown is on the further sign. Go with the flow of traffic to the first intersection and turn right. There's some scaffolding on your right.  Go to the next intersection and turn right There's a blue and yellow awning to your left. Go to the next intersection and stop in the middle of the intersection and look ahead to your right.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the trash bin that is bright green (recycling bin). Turn so you are going down the road with traffic. An area with trees will be on your left side. When you reach the intersection turn right. You will go straight and pass a building with orange on it and a purple awning. Keep going straight. At the next intersection keep going straight. There is a long red faded awning to the left. Right after you get past that there is a large red dumpster with graffiti on it in the road on the ride side. Touchdown is on the ground at the first corner of that red dumpster. Turn and go in the direction where you see a tall white building on the right up ahead. Go straight thru intersection. At the next intersection there is a gray and white fire hydrant on the left. Touchdown is sitting on top.  Position yourself so you're moving with the flow of traffic. Trees and low green fencing will be on your right.  At the first intersection, turn right. After you turn, you will see park benches in an open space on your right. Take this street until you are almost to the next intersection. You will see a brick building on your left. There are window air conditioners in two of the four first floor windows. Touchdown is sitting on the air conditioning unit in the window closest to the intersection. Orient in the direction of traffic. Take a right at the intersection with steam coming out of a sewer. Proceed straight until reaching an intersection with a lot of orange construction cylinders. Take a right. Touchdown is sitting on a bench next to a person with a brown hoodie to the right. Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Head to the nearest intersection.  Turn right. Continue into the next intersection.   While standing in the middle, you will see 2 orange newspaper boxes on your right.  The bear is on top of the one closest to you.   Align yourself so that the school bus is on your left. Head up to the first intersection to make a right, and another right very shortly after. You'll get a left turn and have to go forward before you get a right.

This road should have vans and service vehicles on the left and right as you enter. Stop when you hit the blue rental bikes on the sidewalk to the left. Touchdown is sitting on the metal base at the start of the bike racks, under the blue part. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the building with the neon purple sign on your right. Continue forward for a while until you reach the next intersection and turn right. You should see some green awnings on the building to your left when you are nearing the intersection. Once you have turned right you will see a pharmacy to your right and a home improvement store to your left. Continue forward to the next intersection and take another right. You should see a building with red awnings on your right and a Gothic looking building on your left. Move forward so that you have passed the crosswalk and stop. Turn to your left and you will see a black fire hydrant between two black bollards. Touchdown is sitting at the base of the black fire hydrant. Stand in the intersection so that the yellow corner store is on your right and scaffolding is on your left. Move past those, and pass straight through 2 intersections. At the third, turn left and soon you'll be able to veer back so you've made a u-turn on the original street. Do so, and go back to near where you started. You need to pass through 2 intersections. Then at the original intersection, stop in the center. Ahead of you on your left is a white sign with black arrow and red circle. Touchdown is on that sign. Get turned so the white windows are on your right side.Go straight. At the first intersection turn right. There will be long red awning on the left and a white arched doorway on the right side after you have turned. Go straight. At the intersection head to the right. If you have a black building with gold window trim and green above on your right then you are going the correct direction. Turn right again almost immediately. After you turn you will have blue bikes on your left side. Go straight. At the first intersection go straight a short distance. You'll have green covered scaffolding on your left side. Before you get to the end of that scaffolding you will see a garage door underneath it on the left side. Touchdown is on the ground in the middle of that large garage door.  Take a right at the intersection close to you. Continue on this road to the next intersection. Take a right here. Move a long way down this street. Stop at the first intersection. On your left will be a blue awning Touchdown is on the first white letter of this awning.  Orient yourself with traffic on the highway so you are facing the bridge up ahead. Continue straight until just before the bridge you see a building under construction with orange fencing on your right. Touchdown is on top of the outdoor elevator in front of the blue door on top on the right side of the building under construction.  One side of the road has cement barriers (with spaces between them) all along the road.  Turn so the cement barriers are on your left and you're going with the flow of traffic.  Go forward to the intersection, and turn right.  Go all the way down this long block, and make a right at the next intersection you come to.  Keep an eye on the buildings on your right.  One is a narrow yellow building that has a black shamrock-shaped sign sticking out from it (above street level - on the second floor).  Stop when you've just passed that yellow building by a little bit. The bear is on top of the shamrock sign. Turn so you are facing the intersection and step into it.  Go straight and move up the block. You should be moving with the flow of traffic. At the next intersection take a right. Stop just before reaching the next intersection you should just about be in the crosswalk and look to your right.

Touchdown is on top of the bright yellow newspaper box. Right in the middle of it.  Turn so the parking driveway/entrance is on your left.  Go forward until you reach an intersection, and turn left.  
Now there will be a store with a black and white stripe awning to your right.  Go forward until the next intersection, and turn left.  
Stop after you've made the turn, but before you've even made it to the crosswalk (so you're still technically in the intersection).  On one corner there is an orange traffic cone with an orange flag or cloth on top of it.  The bear is on the top of this cone. Turn so you are heading in the same direction as traffic. The green scaffolding will be on your left. Go straight forward until you reach the next intersection. Turn right. There will be a mirrored building on your right side and green scaffolding on the left. Go straight all the way down this long block to the next intersection. Go into the middle of the intersection. You are still facing the same direction. Look on the corner ahead on the right side. There is a black trashcan on the right corner. Touchdown is on top of that trashcan. From your starting point, please turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  There should be an intersection right in front of you.  Walk forward into this intersection and then turn right.  You should now be looking down a narrow, one-way road with yellow and blue umbrellas on the right.  

Just walk straight down this narrow road for a long distance until you come to an intersection.  

Turn to your right in this intersection, and walk in the same direction as traffic, down a wide one-way street with shops on both sides.  Walk forward, and you will see another intersection up ahead.  Stop on the first crosswalk, just before you enter this intersection.  

Up ahead, on your right (on the opposite side of the intersection) is a square orange sign with black letters.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the middle of the top edge of this sign.   Stand with the scaffolding to your left and the brown stairs to your right. Move ahead and go straight through the first intersection. When you get to the second intersection, turn right.
 After turning, you should have a wooden store to your right. Move ahead past a brick building with green signs on your left. At the next intersection, turn right. Before reaching the next intersection, on your right is a gray post with a blue stripe near the top. Touchdown is on the post. Go with traffic. There is a blue than a red awing next to each other on the left.
Turn right at the first intersection. Road work will be on the left side of the street.
Keep straight to the next intersection and turn right.
Look to the right for the American flag on the building. Move pass the flag and look back at it. Touchdown is sitting on the gold ball of the flag pole. Going with the flow of traffic go to the first intersection and take a right turn. You'll have a blue awning to your right.  Go to the next intersection and take a right.  You'll have a playground on your left.  Go to the next intersection and take a right again.  There will be graffiti on a red building to your right.   Near the next intersection on your left will be  a small burgundy red curved awning.  Touchdown is above the number on this awning. Follow traffic to the light and go left. Then, go straight through the next two lights.  

There should be a gleaming white building to your right and large round stone planters with bushes in them to your left.  Stop just before reaching the first of the planters, so it's still ahead and to your left. Touchdown is atop the shrub in it. With the graffiti building to the left, go straight. Go through the first intersection, which has red benches in it. Then go straight and take a right at the next intersection. Go down the little street and when almost at the next intersection, look for a column covered in papers to the right. Touchdown is sitting on it. Turn so that you are going with traffic down the one way street. You will see a red sign with blue on the bottom on your left. There will also be a red bus lane painted on the ground to your left. Head down this street.
Head straight through the first intersection where there is a business on the left corner with a red sign. Keep going straight. You will come to another intersection that you will go straight through as well. Keep going straight and stop at the next intersection. Here will see a light colored stone building on the left with dome like awnings. Take a right here. As you start down the street you will see an orange and purple awning on your right. Head down this street with traffic. Stop when you see a silver door with a yellow square on it.  It is on the left side of the street. Touchdown is on the yellow square on the door.

 Orient yourself so that the black metal fence is on your right.  Go to the intersection and turn right.  There will be an old brick building on your right.  Head down this street.  About halfway down, when there is a tiny fenced in park on your left, you will have a chance to jog slightly to the right in order to enter the right lane.  Take this jog to the right then go forward to the intersection.  At the intersection, go right.  There will be a store with a big green awning on your left. On your right will be a red truck.  Completely pass this truck then stop.   Up ahead of your on the pavement is a bike symbol painted on the right edge of the concrete.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the body of the biker.   Turn so that you are facing the intersection, enter it, then turn right.  Continue and take the next right.  One the next road continue to the next right.  Continue into the next intersection and stop in the middle (4 way options).  Look towards the right, there is a full trash can with white bags sticking out.  The bear is on top. Face the stop signs, with the store fronts on your left side, make a quick left at that intersection. 
Pass the scaffolding on your right and continue down the block, making a left at the first intersection. 
Pass the green awning on your left and make another left at the intersection, with the park now on your right. 
Go forward and make your last left at the intersection. where the green wall is in front of you and stop before you reach the two yellow, diamond signs. Touchdown is on the center of the yellow, diamond sign, to your right. Turn to face the flow of traffic. Go forward for several blocks and turn right at red light. Then make another right at the next red light. Go about half way down the street and look to your right and you will see a gray  garage door with red letters on it. Touchdown is sitting at the right side corner at the ground. Align yourself so that the storefront with an american flag is on your left, and the scaffolding is on your right, and head up this small street with the blocked construction fence.Head straight to the intersection, and take step right, you should have a yellow storefront with chairs outside. There's a red fire hydrant with a silver tip in front of it, Touchdown is on the silver tip. Face the same direction the traffic is heading. Ahead of you should be an intersection and a building with blue awning on the right diagonal. Turn left at this intersection. There will be a brick building with a blue door on the left side continue down this street. Down the street on the left side, there should be large arches with white squared paned windows and doors, continue past them. On the right side, there is a small section of blue scaffolding. The Touchdown is on the front wheel of the blue bike that's attached to the scaffolding. Turn away from the intersection.  There should be a red awning on your right and scaffolding up ahead.

When you get to the big intersection, ensure you go to the left forward direction to stay on course.  The controls get a bit funky through this intersection, just do what you can to move through it.

You're in the right place if a playground is on your left.

Keep going until you're next to a brick building with 2 silver metal doors and a display in the middle.  Touchdown is on the blue square in the middle of this display. Stand so that you are walking with the flow of traffic. Move forward to the first intersection and turn right. Move to the next intersection and turn right again. Move forward, past a play yard on your right with kids, with a large fence. As you reach the end of it, there is an open door. Touchdown is on the center of the open door. Turn around and face the opposite direction as the intersection. You will be in oncoming traffic, but go ahead. Go left at the next intersection. Upon turning, notice all of the red poles on the buildings lining the left side of the street. Walk ahead, straight through a few intersections, small and one big. Eventually, pass by a large grey building on your right, with black iron over the windows and lion statues at the arched doorways. Pass by it. As soon as you get past it, you will be stopped just before entering a 4 way intersection. Turn and look to your left,  at the end of the ornate grey building. You should be in front of a large arched window at street level, with a box of shrubbery in front of it. Touchdown is sitting on the very top of the boxed shrubs, right in the middle. From your starting point, please turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  Two green (artificial?) trees in planters should be on your left.  

Walk straight down this street, and it should be an easy, straight walk.  

Go straight through the first intersection you come to.  The store front with the curvy letters should still be on your left as you exit the other side of this intersection.  There should also be some clothes (or rugs) on a table to your right.  Just keep moving straight forward.  

Pass a large red canopy that is hanging over the sidewalk on the left, and you are about halfway there.  

Pass an open garage on the right, and then a store with bright yellow letters and flag.  A little further ahead, you should see a vertical sign made up of glowing red letters and a green clover logo at the very top.  Move past this sign, but look to your right as you keep moving forward.  

After a short distance further, you should see a dark gray pole on the right-hand sidewalk with a blue stripe near its top.  Right behind that pole will be a glass door with black borders.  

Touchdown is sitting right on top of this gray pole.
 Turn and go in the direction with the traffic. Turn right at intersection.You'll see purple on the right. Turn right at next intersection. You'll see some scaffolding on the left up ahead. Turn right and stop at next intersection.To your right will be 4 orange and white barrels. Touchdown is sitting on the one that is closest to the corner of the sidewalk.  First orient yourself so that the construction site is on your left and the dark gray building with the wrought iron fence is on your right. At the intersection turn left so that the building with the white lower half and windows above is on your right. Walk down this long street passing through the first intersection. A little over half way down the street, there will be a school on your right with a blue painted wall outside on the lower half. Turn left at the intersection. There will be a building with two big blue dumpsters on your right. Walk a bit and just past the blue dumpsters on your left you'll pass some hedges. You'll see a concrete barrier at the entrance to the parking lot. Touchdown will be right in front of this barrier. Orient yourself, so that the cars are coming at you, with the telephone booth on your left and store display windows on your right. Go forward and stop just after the second intersection, with the red awnings to your right, before you reach the flags. On your right, in front of the red awnings, there will be a telephone booth. Touchdown will be on top of the telephone booth. Turn until the four red signs with white symbols are on your left. There should be a corner in front of you to the left that has three red posts. Walk into the intersection when you are facing the correct way. Turn right at the intersection. There should be a green garbage can to your right on the corner and two trees in the middle of the road to your left. Walk straight until you reach the red building and turn right. The red building should still be on your right and a brick building should be on your left. Walk down the street in the middle of these two buildings past the pink sign on your right. There should be a red building on the corner to your left. Turn left down the street at that corner. Walk down this street past the building with the pink sign on your left. Stop when there is a green fire escape with gold light fixtures under it to your right. Touchdown is in the middle light fixture. Go in the same direction as traffic.  You will see scaffolding to your right and a park to your left.  Move forward to the first stoplight.  Turn left.  The park will still be on your left.    Move forward just slightly, just past the red and white street sign on your left.  Turn to your right.  On the brick building building is a red sign with tiny white lettering.  Touchdown is sitting on the top of this sign.   Orient yourself where there is a green, yellow, blue, dark red awning in front of you but on the top left hand side. Make a right at this intersection. Once you made a right continue forward passing various black and red awnings on your right and scaffolding on your left. Once you pass the scaffolding you should be near an intersection. At the intersection make a right turn. Once you made a right turn, pass the two blue awning on your left, bicycle parked near a tree on your left, and a blue scaffolding. Continue forward till you pass two bicycle chain to a pole on your right next to a black fire hydrant up ahead. Once you pass the bicycle don't go any further and the touch down is sitting on top of the pole next to the fire hydrant on your right. Turn so you are facing away from the intersection. You should be going the correct way down this one way street. Go down to the end of this long block. When you get to the corner there are a lot of bikes against the building on the right. Go into the intersection and make a right turn. Just ahead on the right is a building with a green window and overhang. Go past that. You will see a red awning past that on the right. Go slightly forward until you are almost to the bike on the right side before you get to the intersection. Touchdown is on the seat of that bike.  Stand so that you are walking with the flow of traffic. Move forward straight through the first intersection, and continue straight about that same distance. On your right you will pass a long tang building with black fenced area in the center. Continue to the end of it, and there is a diamond yellow street sign (above a square yellow sign). Touchdown is on the diamond sign. Go with the flow of traffic to the light and turn left. You'll have a reddish awning to your right. Go to the next intersection and turn left.  There will be a construction fence on your right.  Go all the way down to where this chain link fence ends.  There's an orange sign on the end of it. Touchdown is on this sign. Turn and follow the flow of traffic.  Take the first left.  Pass through 2 intersections then turn left (At the 3rd).  On the left you will see a glass sidewalk overhang.  Stand in front of it, and look left (Into it).  There is a fire hydrant with a red top.  The bear is on top. turn so that you are moving with the flow of traffic and head to the first intersection just in front of you take a left 
go to the next intersection and again take a left 
continue straight to the next intersection and again take another left 
go to the next intersection and stop do not go any further.
turn around so you are now facing the opposite direction and to your left there is a yellow newspaper box 
touchdown is sitting at the base of it by the pole
 Keep the fencing to your left. Go straight to the next intersection. Take a right. When almost at the next intersection, there are two orange barrels to the right. Touchdown is on the one nearest the intersection. Turn yourself until the fenced in parking lot is on your left and start down the street. Continue straight past the parking lot.  Turn left at intersection.  Thee will be a blue bench on your left and a garden median on the street you are moving down.  Continue straight through T intersection.  You will see a grey building with the lower part of the wall painted green on your right.  Continue past a blue bench on your left and turn left at T intersection.  Just after turning, you will see a blue mailbox on your right.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the mailbox. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic with the business that has a red banner and blue writing is on your left.
Go straight through the next intersection.  You'll see potted plants on the left and a long large shiny wall on the right.
Turn left at the next intersection.  Go forward slightly and you will see two mailboxes side by side on the right.  Touchdown is on the logo of the mailbox on the left. face so you are moving with the flow of traffic so straight on the slip road go straight through the first intersection there are orange and white cones on your left go straight through the second intersection and at the third take a right there are buses in the divider of the road continue to just after the 1st intersection and stop there are blue benches on your right touchdown is sitting on the furthest seat  Turn to go with the flow of traffic. 
Go straight and turn right at the intersection. You should see construction right next to a turn. Ignore this road and keep going straight.

At the next intersection turn right. You should now see a brick building with a bunch of AC units sticking out on your right. Go straight until you just pass this building then stop. Look to your right you should see dumpsters with graffiti on them. The touchdown is in the middle of the left dumpster. 

 Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic, and turn left at the intersection.    Cross through one small intersection.  Then cross through a large intersection and stop.  Look right.  There is a trashcan and then a blue mailbox.  The bear is on the mailbox.   From your starting point, please turn around and walk down the one-lane street that has scaffolding on both sides.  Just go straight down this street until you come to an intersection.  

Walk into the middle of the intersection and take a right.  There should be some red/maroon awnings on your right and some trees in concrete planters on the median to your left.  

Walk to the next intersection and take another right.  Now there should be a yellow shopfront with red awnings on your right, and a row of blue bicycles on your left.  Walk down, pass the bicycles, and keep going straight, so that the park is on your left.  

Pass an orange stone building with a dark green canopy over its doorway, but then stop just before you step into the crosswalk at the next intersection.  

Look forward and slightly to your left.  You should see a black metal trash can, and behind that can (but further in front of you) is a black gate with two orange signs with arrows.  Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the top of that black trashcan. Turn to go in the same direction as traffic. Turn left at the 2 red and white octagon signs. Black awnings to the right and blue awning to the left. Turn left at the intersection. Playground to the right in different colored fence. At the next intersection you want to make the second left which puts you going in the direction with traffic. To your right is a gray and red building with flowers out front. On the right will be some white benches. Touchdown is sitting in the middles of the first one.  Orient yourself so a white store with red cursive writing is ahead on the right and proceed out of the intersection. Turn left at the first light. Stop when you are about to exit the next intersection. A series of trashcans should be on your right. Touchdown is on top of the green lidded one. Turn so you are facing the same way as traffic and the store with gold signs is on your left.  Follow traffic down this road for a while until you reach a major intersection.  Turn right here and follow the traffic down this one way road.  Turn right again when you reach the next intersection.  You'll see a yellow sign with a lot of light bulbs under it on your left.  Proceed forward and stop after you pass the yellow sign on your left.  There is a street lamp with a black rectangular trash box to the right.  Touchdown is sitting on top of that trash box. Turn so that there is a dead end blocked off with a chain link fence and an orange porta potty in front of you.  Now, turn around and orient yourself so that you can walk in the opposite direction. You should be going against traffic. There is a red brick wall to your left and a rounded roof metal building to your right. Walk forward.  You will come to a point in the road that is wider, with traffic barriers and cones to your left.  (For some reason, I guess you are site seeing). Turn around and go back the way you came. Turn left at this intersection that you are visiting for the second time.  Go ahead, passing a large lit up blue sign on your right and through a small intersection.  At the next small intersection, see a glass building with many stairs to the sidewalk ahead on your right. Going just past the steps, stop and look to your left. You will see a yellow post next to a garbage bin. Touchdown is sitting on top of the garbage bin. With the empty white store on your right, followed by some graffiti and then the store with a yellow sign.  Go straight to the first intersection  and turn right.  There will be a yellow sign on your right with glasses on it.  Go straight through the next intersection and turn right at the next one.  The store on your left will have a sign out front with a red star on it.  As you walk ahead, look on the right for a navy blue awning on your right.  Touchdown is on top of the number on the front.  (it's across from some scaffolding) Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
You should see scaffolding ahead on the left.
Heading down this road, you will pass a yellow store with yellow security gates.
Turn right at the next intersection and you should see a very short block before the next intersection.  Move forward to it and turn right.  When you do, there will be scaffolding and a red post on your left.  Continue down this street and stop just past the end of the scaffolding.  Touchdown is on the door handle of the double doors that are grey-blue to your right. Find the flow of the traffic where the orange cones are on your right. Now go down this road until you hit the intersection then take a right. Go to the next intersection and take another right. There should be scaffolding on the right and left. Go into the intersection. Look to your right. There is what looks like a bell on the ground. It's black and white. your touchdown is the top of that.  You need to face the intersection that curves left ahead of you and follow that curve. As you follow the curve left, you'll pass the store with off-white border with gold writing on your right. Continue, and soon you are forced to turn left or sharper left. Choose the sharper option. Just past it, is a 4-way chance to turn; go straight. Now your path curves slightly left, with red buildings/signs on your right. Continue straight through the 4-way intersection. As you get close to the bridge ahead, on your right is an orange awning. Touchdown is on the yellow street sign near the orange awning. Orient yourself so that you are moving with the flow of traffic. At that first intersection, turn right. Pass green scaffolding on your left. At the next intersection, turn right again. You'll pass on your left a building with white and green bricks. Continue until you see a playground ahead to your left, with a spot where you can turn left just before the playground. Take the left turn and stop. Ahead are two neon green doors. Touchdown is in the middle of the doors. Align yourself with the flow of traffic. Head down this road and take a left, then take the next left after. You should be following a yellow taxi down a smaller road.about three quarters down the street, you should see a modern glass and metal door in a black entrance, with a red brick building surrounding it. Touchdown is on the numbers on the awning. To your right should be a giant glass window looking building. Directly in front of you to your left you should see an orange fence. Head straight, you should now be heading parallel with the orange fence. When you reach the intersection make a left.
Head straight until you reach the next intersection, now make a left. On your right you'll see a silver fence. On your left you'll see a green fence. If you've reached the intersection he went too far. On the silver fence you will see a white sign with red letters touchdown is sitting directly in front of that sign. You will know it is the right sign because you will see a gate that runs behind it. Turn to face the light and follow traffic through the intersection to the other side.

At the end of the block, go right, go to the end of the block again, and right, again.

You'll pass a building with copious amounts of glass and a preference for green on your left.

Watch on your right for the entrance to a parking garage, and stop before you reach it. They'll be a silver metal bollard to the right of the entry. Touchdown is sitting on top of it. Turn with the flow of cars and head to the nearest intersection.  Turn right.  Go through one intersection, and then take the next right.  (It should be the first right you can take).  On your right you will see a big painting.  Stop when you are about even with it.  To your left is a red door.  The bear is on the door handle. Orient yourself so that there is a white brick building on your right.  Go to the first intersection.  Turn right.  On your right, there will be a building where the upper flowers are painted in pink.  Go down this street.  Pass the fenced in basketball courts on your left, and the park with the flags on your right.  When you reach the scaffolding on both sides of you, go just past the scaffolding on the left and stop. Turn to your right.  Between two of the blue scaffolding poles is a dingy yellow/brown fire hydrant.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this hydrant.   Follow traffic to the light and go left.  When you reach the light at the end of this long block, stop on the crosswalk before entering the intersection.  Rotate left.  There's a narrow rectangular sign with a black sticker and blue triangle on it.

Touchdown sits atop it in the center. Hello. Please orient yourself facing the flow of traffic. You will see a playground behind a black iron gate to your left. 

Walk forward to the first intersection. Turn right here.

There will be some blue dumpsters on your left behind some trees. To your right, you will see a white brick and stone building with lots of windows. 

Move forward to the next intersection. You will see light building a green awning to your right at this intersection. Turn right here.

Now the light building with the green awning is on your left. Move forward down this path. There will be scaffolding with green awning to your right up ahead. Keep an eye on the left side as you approach a bright red delivery truck with yellow accents.

You will see to your left side a brick building with blue outlined windows and doors. It is right next to the red delivery truck. Move forward past this red truck a little bit keeping your eyes on the left side. You will pass the windows and approach several blue doors. There will be two lights on each side of these doors outlined in blue. You will also be standing right next to a white sign with red letters and arrows. 

Touchdown will be on this white sign with red markings in the middle. Good luck! Follow the cars, then turn right at the intersection. Stop just as you reach the building with the purple awning out front. There is a red sign ahead of you to the left. Touchdown is in the middle of the sign. Go in the direction that places the female graffiti mural on your right. At the next intersection make a left. Before you get to the next intersection there will be a side street on the left, go down this side street, you will have a wall of green shrubbery to your right and a parking lot stuffed to the gills with cars on your left. At the next intersection you will make a left. You will see a yellow newspaper box next a bunch of black trash bags on your right. Go to the next intersection and go left, there will be a green awning with yellow on a red brick building to your right. This building has an aluminum garage door with graffiti on it, stop just past this door. If you turn to the right you will see some more graffiti on the store fronts. Turn to the left and you will see a patio with wooden chairs off of a restaurant. Turn to the right and you will see a white cat with a black circle on it's forehead on the storefront. Touchdown is on this circle. Orient yourself with traffic on the one way street. At the end of the block, turn right. Turn right again at the next intersection. You're on another one way street and there is a hat stand on your left and two food carts on your right. Continue straight down the road approaching the flags on either side of the street. Pass by all the flags and then a parking garage on your left. On the right side of the street, past the parking garage, there is a ladder in the street surrounded by caution tape and two orange cones. Touchdown is on the base of the first cone.  Turn so the playground is on your left, and go straight through the first intersection (the one that's pretty close to you).  Continue to the next intersection, and turn right.  You'll have a brick building with sections of chain link fence built into the wall on your right.  
Go forward until you reach an intersection, and turn right.  You're now on a very short block with a building with arched windows and doors to your left.  You'll pass basketball courts on your right.  Move forward until you've just passed the last tree inside the basketball courts.  The bear is sitting on the low green wall just in line with the trunk of that last tree. From the starting position, turn so you are facing the same direction as the traffic on the street. Move in this direction through the first traffic light. At the second traffic light, turn right. You'll move down this narrow one-way street for a short distance until you get to the scaffolding in green on your right. At the front of the scaffolding, next to the traffic cones, is a fire hydrant. Touchdown is sitting on top of this fire hydrant. face in the direction going with the flow of traffic. take a right at the first intersection and stop. turn around and orient yourself with the flow of traffic again.  you should be facing the intersection again with a row of blue bikes up ahead across the street. go straight through the intersection and past the bikes. Just past the bikes you should arrive at another intersection where you should take a left. after taking a left, head straight, passing the large black truck trailer on your right. keep heading straight until you reach another intersection and take a left. after taking a left, there should be a building with interesting painted artwork on your right. head straight until you reach another intersection. go straight through that intersection and stop just on the other side. move towards the first tree on the right, which is next to a fire hydrant. touchdown is at the base of the tree,  Follow the flow of traffic and turn right at the first intersection. Continue forward and turn right at the next intersection. There will be green scaffolding on your left. Go forward until you see a yellow pedestrian sign on the scaffolding. The touchdown is on the sign.  From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  A green stripe with white lettering should be ahead of you, on your right.  

Walk forward a short distance and stop in the middle of the intersection.  Turn to your right in this intersection, so that you are looking down a narrow street between the building with the green stripe, and a building with large purple signs above its windows.  Walk down the narrow street between these two, toward a yellow and black banner hanging above the sidewalk on the left.  

Just keep walking straight forward down this narrow road, until you come to a four-way intersection.  

Stop in the middle of this intersection and turn to your right.  A yellow awning with large red letters should now be on your left and a shop with pink and blue posters over all of its windows and doors should be on your right.  Walk down the wide road between these two buildings. 

When you come to an intersection, stop and look around.  
Look to your left, and slightly behind you, and you should see a vertical grey post with white letters and dots.  Touchdown is sitting right on top of this post. Face so the store with the brown and white awning is on your left and the grey building with green windows and balconies is on your right.  You will pass a number of brick buildings on both sides of the road and a building on the right with a banner out front that is white with a blue circular logo in the center.  Continue to the first intersection and turn right.  You should see a number of high rise buildings a short distance ahead.  Before you reach the next intersection there will be a store on the right with a blue and white sign overhead.  In the window is a logo in white with a man holding a sandwich.  Touchdown is on the sandwich. Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Head to the nearest intersection.  Turn left.  You will see a vendor with red and yellow umbrella on your left.  Continue down this road to the next intersection.   Go through this intersection.  There is a building with a lot of glass on your right.  Stop when you are in front of it (The door should be slightly to your right).  On the left of the door you will see 2 silver circles near the concrete.  The bear is in the middle of the left one.   Go in the direction that puts the brown overpass ahead of you. Go under the first underpass. At the next underpass there will be an option to go to the right or to the left, go to the right into the tunnel. At the exit of the tunnel you will see a yellow diamond traffic sign to your right. Touchdown is at the top of this traffic sign. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the building with the arched windows to your right.  Continue forward to the intersection and take a right. The building with the arched windows will now be to your right and you should see several trees overhanging the road in front of you. Continue all the way down this road until you reach the intersection and take another right. Again you will see a building with arched windows on your right as well as exactly two trees on the right side of the road in front of you. Continue forward to the next intersection and take a right. Go forward until you are standing in the crosswalk. On your left you should see some orange construction barriers and a orange and white construction Barrel. Click the base of the orange and white construction Barrel to find touchdown. Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic, Go through one intersection, then turn right.  Take the next right.  Pass the same street as you did before (Through intersection).  Stop in the middle of the next intersection.  To the right is a black moped/motorcycle.  The bear is on the seat.   Turn yourself so you are facing the flow of traffic. 
Continue straight, passing through an intersection with a light. 
When you come to the second intersection, turn right. 
Go straight until you reach an intersection with a light and turn right. 
Shortly after turning, you will come to another light at an intersection. On the left side of the street, there is some blue scaffolding. Across from here on the right side of the street is an orange and white umbrella. Touchdown is sitting right on top of this umbrella in the middle.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and facing the immediate intersection.  Turn right here and again at the next intersection.  When you do, you'll have a building on your right with dark red awnings.  Head down this road, past some scaffolding on the left.  Keep going until you have almost passed the scaffolding on the right.  A little ahead of you on the right is two yellow outlets left of some glass doors, right where the scaffolding ends.  Touchdown is on the ground beneath them. Face so that there is an orange awning on the right side. Go to the intersection and turn right. Proceed to the next intersection and turn right again. There is a green trashcan on the right. Going down the street there will be yellow and white striped concrete barriers. The Touchdown is on the corner fo the first barrier that's at an angle.  Face the street light and make a quick right. Go under the overpass and make a right at the light. go straight and pass the first light and stop when you see a white rectangle sign with a black arrow pointing right on your right. touchdown will be on the red door behind that sign. Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street.  Move forward until you reach an intersection, and turn left.  Go one short block to the next intersection, and turn left.  Now you're on the block you want to be on.  Keep an eye on the buildings on your right.  You'll come to a doorway with extremely bright yellow panels/paint around it.  Right past that is a silver garage door.  Stop once you've passed that garage door.  Look down on the street along your right, and notice the manhole cover (just a smidge ahead of where you are, on your right, pretty close to the sidewalk).  The bear is on that manhole cover. Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. A teal semi-trailer truck should be to the right side of the street. Move forward until you reach an intersection, and take a right.

2. When you reorient yourself, there should be a few fenced-in areas to your left and a building with a red awning to your right. Ignore the first three-way intersection that you come across (it won't actually look like one), but take a right at the next one and stop.

3. Look on the left side of this new street to find a multicolored umbrella. Touchdown is sitting on the very top of it.

Good luck! :) walk towards oncoming traffic. before you get to the restaurant with the red signs on the left, there is a covered bus stop. Touchdown is on the yellow sign on the bus stop. You will probably be starting in the middle of an intersection. You need to turn yourself and turn so that the grey building with a lot of windows is on your left and many red brick buildings with a lot of windows on your right. You will go through one intersection. When you come to the second intersection you will make a left turn. There will be a short red brick building with a black awning on your right. Go straight down this road. As you come up on the first intersection, there will be a building on the corner on your right with a green awning and green trim. Outside that building there is a white fence. Touchdown is sitting on the end of that fence closest to the street.  Orient so you're facing the same direction as the traffic.  Walk forward to the intersection and turn right.  Walk to the next intersection and take another right.  Walk down this block for a ways.  As you're going down, on the left is a green scaffolding awning.  You'll be walking past the end of it.  When it ends, look ahead to the right.  There's a black sign with white lettering up on your right.  You'll walk past that, and look for the light pole.  On that light pole is a basket of flowers.  The touchdown is nestled in the flowers with it's back against the pole. Go with the flow of the traffic. Take a right at the intersection and you should see a food place on the right and a convenience store on the right. Looks like big tall apartment buildings on the left. Follow this road until the next intersection. Then take a right. You should see a coffee place on the right and scaffolding on the left. Go until you're past the light blue tarp. Look down and to the right. You should see a circular sewage drain. The middle is your touchdown.  Align yourself so that the bus stop is on your right, head up to the intersection to take a left. you'll take another left at the next intersection where  you should have a building with scaffolding in front of it, and a tall building with balconies. Head down to just before the next intersection and to your right you should see a green awning with white and yellow on it. Touchdown is on the trash can in front of it, next to the traffic pole and hydrant. Start by facing so that you're facing so that the restaurant with the yellow sign is on your right, and the buildings with glass doors are on your left.  Walk straight until you get to the next intersection. 

At this intersection you should see a building with a blue banner and trees with yellow leaves across the street to your right. Turn left at this intersection. 

Walk straight until you reach an intersection right before a road covered by a breezeway on top. Continue straight through this intersection. 

Keep going straight until you reach the intersection with a building with a red awning to your right. Turn left at this intersection. 

Walk through this intersection a few paces, and you should see a building to your right that looks shorter than the rest. It has a glass window front and some kind of plant cut into the shape of an animal on top of its sign. Below, there's a potted tree with pinkish leaves. Touchdown is at the bottom of the black pot this tree is in.

 Turn and follow traffic down the street. Turn left at the intersection. There is a gray building on the right and a tan building on the left. You will pass a dumpster with blue tarp on the right. Orange construction  things on the left. Turn left at intersection. There is a blue mail box  on the right. Touchdown is sitting on top.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  The store fronts and awnings will be on your left.
Move forward through two intersections and on your way to the third, you should see some orange/white cones on the left, past those are some yellow doors on the right, keep going.
Past the dumpster on the right, you will see doors and windows framed in light blue with flowers painted on one of the doors.  Touchdown is on the green flower at the bottom. Turn and walk against traffic, go through the intersection and passing by the two red white and blue flags hanging from the building on your left.

Go straight through the next intersection you encounter, now walking past a building with a lot of green followed by scaffolding on your left.

When you walk forward, you'll be disoriented as you suddenly appear on a street with many trees on the right.  It's okay; keep walking straight, into traffic now. When you move forward, scaffolding will be visible to your left, letting you know you're still on track. Go to the end of the block, passing a blue flag and a red, white and blue flag jutting from a building on your right as you do.

Go right and walk to the end of the block.

Go right again. You will be heading into traffic going the wrong way down a one way street with many trees on both sides and a white entrance canopy visible ahead to your right. Go just a little past it, so you can turn and directly face the all red building with a single air conditioner visible in the second story right side window.

Touchdown is sitting on top of the birdbath behind the black fencing in front of the white building left of the red building.
 Turn so that the green wall is to your right and the silver columns are to your left. Walk forward past the tunnel on your right. You should reach an intersection at the end of the street. Once there turn right. There should be construction on your left. Walk forward past the construction and stop next to the broken light post on the right. Face the broken light post. You should be looking directly at a skinny green post with a red sign on it. Touchdown is at the base of the post. Turn away from the light and follow the road into the darkness... and into the light on the other end.  As you exit the tunnel, you should see ahead four huge stone pillars on your left and a building with excessive amounts of glass windows on your right.  Pass both until you come to the wall, and go right.  Walk forward, passing two stop signs, and then keep forward through the light.

Turn right into the intersection and then turn to your right to face the building you've been walking along.  You should see a black fire hydrant with a white cap. 

Touchdown is on top of the white cap. Moving in the same direction as the cars, go straight. Turn right at the intersection. There will be blue umbrellas lining the street on your left. Turn right at the intersection. Go straight until the car park is to your left and a gray building with trees is to your right. Touchdown will be sitting on top of the small tree in a black box that is the furthest to the right.  Align yourself with the flow of traffic on this street, and head up to the intersection. There should be a store with red signs on your left once you turn. Pass this and a the next intersection, turn right again.

Pass some school buses on your right and you're halfway on this road. You should see a brown awning also on the right  to the entrance of a tan brick building. If you look at the front of the awning, you'll see three words. Touchdown is at the tip of the triangle of the awning. Turn and follow with the traffic Go straight thru intersection. Turn right at next intersection. . Go past orange and white block on the right. Look for a gray and white building on the right. It has 9 garbage cans out front between two sets of steps. Touchdown will be on the air conditioner to the left on the end.  Orient yourself so you are facing an awning with blue, yellow, and red horizontal stripes and begin walking in that direction.  Continue walking until you reach an intersection.  You should have a white building on your left and a gray building with reflective windows on the right.  Turn right at this intersection.  Continue down the road in this direction until you reach the third intersection.  You will see a large, multi-colored mural with writing on it to the right.  Turn right so you will walk past the mural.  Walk down this street, just past the first intersection.  On your right you should see scaffolding.  On the scaffolding there is and orange cone with two white stripes.  Touchdown is located at the base of the cone. Get turned around so that you are heading the same direction as traffic.There will be an orange and white barrier with chain link fencing to the right. Go straight. You will reach an intersection and need to go straight through it. When you reach the next intersection turn left. Once you have turned left you will see a building on the left that is covered in green or dark grey boards and almost no openings for windows or doors. Go straight for one block. At the intersection turn left. There will be a building with arches on it on your left side. Go straight. When you get to the next intersection stop on the crosswalk. On the left corner there is a vendor selling items on the corner. There is a yellow sign on a furniture dolly being used as a display at that vendor. Touchdown is on that yellow sign. Align yourself with traffic and move forward towards the intersection. Take a right at the intersection. Move forward to the next intersection. Again, take another right. Move forward until you see a white double door with large black letters. Touchdown is at the bottom where the two doors meet. You're in a pedestrian area with a checkered floor.  With plants to your right, go straight. Take a right on to the street.  You'll be going with the flow of traffic.  You'll go straight through two intersections. You'll have blue traffic cones on your right. Before the last business on your right, there is a grey square planter.  Touchdown is on the top of the square planter. Stand so you are facing away from the intersection. Move forward until you reach an intersection, and turn right. At the green scaffolding on your right, at the end of it is a bike. Touchdown is on the bike seat. Turn and face the same direction as the cars, with the gray building on your left. Go straight and make a right at the first intersection. Go forward, and make a right after the second intersection. There will now be a green awning on your left and a blue awning on your right. Keep going and stop before you reach the green scaffolding. Touchdown is on the red sign that is on that scaffolding. Stand so that the 3 wooden rounded doors are on your right. Move forward to the intersection and turn left. At the next intersection, go left again. Stop in the middle of the green scaffolding on your right. on your left is a door with a tiny blue sign next to it. Touchdown is on the blue sign. Turn to face with traffic, then walk to the end of the block. Turn right, you should see a restaurant on your right. Go to the end of this block, Now turn right again, there will be a building with an odd curved section on your right. Now go forward a little bit more, until right where this shiny, modern building meets up with a brick building with graffiti on the door. Touchdown is right in front of the graffiti door. Turn yourself until the bike lane, sidewalk, and black metal fence are all on your right. Move forward through the first intersection. You will continue to go straight for quite a while. Pass a left-hand turn, a right-hand turn, another left-hand turn, and another right-hand turn. Scaffolding topped with a green border will be at the next intersection. Continue through that intersection as well. You will pass a bus stop which is on the right. A black metal fence begins after the bus stop. Follow the fence until the black fire hydrant with a white cap is to your right. Touchdown is in front of the fire hydrant.  Face the construction barrels and move through them. Take the next right. Proceed forward and take the next right again. Coming up on the right is a reddish-brown building with a black fence in front. Touchdown is on a white and red sign midway down the length of the fence. Stand so you are following the flow of traffic. Go forward to the first intersection and turn right. Then you'll have an opportunity to turn right; do so. Soon on your left will be a gated area with trees in between buildings. The building just before this has 2 blue trash bins outside of it and 4 gray ones. Touchdown is in between the blue trash bins. Begin moving with the flow of traffic, and turn left at the first intersection. After you turn, there's a green sign with white writing on your right. At the next traffic light, turn left again. 

Pass the parking lot on your left and large flight of stairs on your right. Shortly after, there is a large piece of bright blue machinery in the construction zone on your right. Touchdown is perched on top of that blue machine.  Start by turning so that the orange mesh safety fence is on your left and scaffold with green boards to the right.
No turns this route, so go straight ahead
Travel straight through the first intersection ahead.
As you travel forward notice the mural on the brick wall to the right.
Keep going forward.
At the next traffic light, go straight through.
Come across scaffolding to the left and start paying attention to the right side  of the street.
Shortly before the intersection notice the brick building to the right with a black awning white numbering .
Stop parallel to that awning.
Touchdown is on the center number Face the flow of traffic so their is scaffolding on your left. Move forward to the first intersection and turn right. move forward and go right at the next intersection. There should be a flower shop on your left. Move forward for a while. Shortly before you come to another intersection there will be a bicycle on your right locked to a pole with a basket on the handlebars. Touchdown is in the basket.  Go with the flow of traffic.  Notice the building on your right, you will go all the way past it. (it's very long).  Then you will be at a stop light.  Go straight through.  At the next light, look to your right.  Touchdown is sitting on the middle traffic cone. Turn so that you're walking with the flow of traffic. Go forward and continue straight at the first intersection. At the next intersection turn right. You will pass a row of blue bikes on the left. Continue down the street until you see a set of steps on your right that has 3 small and 1 medium pumpkin on it. Touchdown is sitting on the step with the small pumpkins, to the right of them. Stand so that you are walking with the flow of traffic. Move forward along this road until you pass a sports field on your right. Continue underneath a large green road sign above you. Then you will see ahead of you on the right, a diamond yellow street sign, above a square yellow sign, above a rectangle green sign. Touchdown is in the diamond sign. Take the left, and head up to the next intersection, aligning yourself with the flow of traffic. Take a left at the next intersection. Head down to almost the next intersection, and you should see a row of bikes on your left, and a blue produce store on your right.  There will be a hydrant in front of the produce store. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant. Stand facing the direction of the traffic with the statue to your left. Go straight and make a left at the first street light. Go straight toward the traffic and make a left at the first intersection. You should have a green statue on your left. keep going straight until you see an orange circle with a black arrow pointing down on your left. Across the street from that, on your right, there should be a big pathway opening. There is a white square sign with a tree symbol on it. Touchdown is directly above the white square with the tree symbol. Go into the intersection that you are very close to. Make a right turn. You will see a colorful purple arched door up on the right side that also has green and red around it. Go all the way to the end of this long block. At the intersection make a right turn. On your left will be a yellow building that looks faded and like paint is peeling. Go straight one block. Go into the intersection and come to a stop. Thre is a building on the right corner just ahead of you that has a red awning and some bikes out front. Touchdown is on top of that shorter red pole that is on that same corner. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  You should see scaffolding on your left and a yellow ladder.
Turn right at the next intersection that has red awnings across the street on the right.
Go straight through the next two intersections.
At the next intersection, you'll see scaffolding ahead on the left corner and a parking lot on your right.  Turn right here.
Move down to the scaffolding and you should see some bikes parked on the left sidewalk.  In front of them there is a red and white sign on top of a blue sign.  Above those is a potted plant.  Touchdown is on the potted plant. Face so yooou are facing toward a row of storefronts across from you. Enter into the intersection.  Then you will want to turn around and face the direction you just came from. Go straight into the road. Enter the one-way road and continue straight. You will go under an overhead walkway and past a road on the left. Near the end of this road before the intersection, there is a tree on the right side. The Touchdown is on the bottom limb of the tree next to the trunk.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Turn right at the first intersection.  You will have wooden supports on your right.
Head forward and just before the overpass ahead, turn right.  Follow along the wood barrier to the right and go through the intersection ahead.
When you are at the next intersection crosswalk, stop.  To you right will be large cone barriers and to your left the stone wall overlooking the tunnel under construction.  Just above your head is a black and white sign with an arrow on it where you will find Touchdown hiding. Orient yourself with traffic and proceed. Turn right at the light, then turn right at the next light too. Pass scaffolding on the right sidewalk and a cement truck on the left. Stop next to a large pile of trashbags on the left sidewalk. Touchdown is centered on the picture of subs behind the bags. Orient yourself to follow the flow of traffic and turn left when possible. Continue forward and turn left at the next intersection. Go forward until you reach the next intersection. There will be green scaffolding across the street and to your left. The touchdown is the bottom of the green trashcan in that area.  So you're going to go with the flow of traffic. There should be a yellow cab in front of you. you're going to go to the intersection and take a right. You should see a green car to your left, and a white delivery van in front of you and a black SUV. Goto the next intersection and take a right.  There;s a food store on the right. Go down this road until you get to the scaffolding on the right. You should come to a stop at the black trunk, the one that's behind the red car. Your touchdown will be be on the left. There is a camera on the wall to the right of the doors.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic with the intersection behind you.  Go forward and you should see scaffolding ahead on the right.  
Head down to the intersection where there's a huge bullseye billboard and turn left.  You will now have red awnings on the right and black awnings on the left.
Go straight through the next intersection and head down into the next intersection and stop.  On your right you should see colorful stacked people shapes.  Right in front of you should be a white sign with a black arrow and a red circle with a line through it that Touchdown is hiding on.
 Turn and walk the same direction as traffic. Pass a window on your right with half of a yellow wheel design painted on it. Go right at the 1st intersection you come to. Continue on past outdoor seating and potted plants along the street on your left. When you get to the intersection, walk straight through. You will see a long red awning with yellow and white letters ahead on your right. Walk past it and turn to face the building it is connected to.  Left of the awning, see the door with silver molding around it and black tile on the wall.  Touchdown is sitting on the ground in the center of the doorway. Face the intersection, enter it, and turn left. Turn left at the next light too. Stop before the crosswalk of the next intersection. On your left is an image of croissants. Touchdown is on the nearest croissant. With the scaffolding to your left, go straight though the intersection. Take a left at the next intersection around the construction. Go past the yellow umbrella. On the right you should see an object with a purple triangle surrounded by blue, orange, and green. Touchdown is in the middle of that object. Turn so you are facing the same direction as the cars on this road.  Follow the flow of traffic to the first intersection ahead and turn left.  There will be a store with a blue sign on your left followed by one with a green awning.  Follow this road to the next intersection and look to your right to the corner with the chain link fence.  There is a red post near the corner.  Touchdown is sitting on top of that red post. Orient yourself so that you are facing the smaller green bridge with the green rectangular sign on it. Go forwards under the bridge and continue straight.  Do not take the exit ramp.  Just as you pass the exit, on the concrete divider is a signpost with a small green rectangular sign with an arrow.  Touchdown bear is on top of the concrete divider at the base of this sign. Turn so that the buildings with graffiti on them are on your left go to the first traffic light and turn right.Go past 2 traffic lights. Just as you get close to going under the bridge over you you will see a chain link fence on your right with 2 red signs on it.Touchdown is sitting on the first red sign with the most writing on it Turn and follow the flow of traffic.  Go through 2 intersections, then turn left (At the 3rd).  See the blue trash on the right?  Look right.  When you you are directly between the blue and the clear trash bags, stop.  There is a small piece of white trash in the gutter.  The bear is there. Face in the same direction as traffic and walk into the intersection you can see in front of you.

Turn left and walk down this road. You will have scaffolding on the right corner by you as you start.

Walk straight through two intersections.

At the third intersection, turn left. Immediately look to your right. In the construction scaffolding you will see some posters with images on them. One set of posters is black and white and has the same face twice. Touchdown is on the right face.
 You are on a one way road, go with the flow of traffic. At the next intersection make a right. To your left will be a fenced in area with dirt and trees. Up ahead to the right will be a temporary green construction awning, stop directly in front of it. On the left will be a large multicolored building, you should be where the red part meets the light colored part. Turn to your right to look at the awning, there is a white and blue sign at the right end of the awning, touchdown is right in the center of it.  Turn so that you are facing the same direction as traffic. Go down this street almost two full blocks. Just prior to the 2nd intersection, stop. There is some bright pink graffiti to your right.A cone sits here on the sidewalk. Touchdown is on the top of the orange cone. Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're facing the intersection. There should now be a food cart with two red and black umbrellas to your right and some scaffolding with a dark green overhang across the street and to the left.

2. Move into the intersection, and take a left. The aforementioned scaffolding should now be on your right. Moving down this street, you'll pass straight through two intersections (the first is a four-way and the second is a three-way).

3. When you reach the next intersection (another four-way), take a left. You should now be on a single-lane road that's separated from the road you were just on by a large green stripe and some small poles. The road splits into two lanes up ahead.

4. Move down this road until you're almost at the intersection. Stop when you're standing on the part of the crosswalk that's closest to the intersection. There should be a manhole cover near your feet to the upper-left. If you look to the left of that, on the corner of the sidewalk, you should see a white or light gray pole with a yellow crossing signal on it. Touchdown is in the very center of that crossing signal screen.

Good luck! :) Go with traffic flow with scaffolding on your right. Go to the next corner and turn left. 

Still with traffic flow, go to the next corner and turn left. When you turn there is a gray store on your left with a red sign with the name of the place on it. It has gray awning. 

Move ahead, past the scaffolding coming up on the right. Stop just past the scaffolding and turn around to your left. There is a blue awning with large white lettering. To the right of it is a gray doorway with metal and glass doors. Above the doors are black numbers that Touchdown is sitting on top of, but not covering. You'll be in the middle of an intersection.  You will want to put the store with a red banner, white text, and stars on it to your right.  Go straight here.
You should see scaffolding ahead on the right.
Go straight through the next intersection. You should see more scaffolding ahead on the right.
Turn right at the next intersection.  This will put two thin red awnings on your left and a blue flag hanging out on the right.
Turn right at the next intersection before you go under the overpass.
At the next intersection, stop when you're at the far crosswalk.
Look left and you'll see a white and black bell on the median.  Touchdown is on the white part of this bell. Turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street and walk forward just a tiny bit so that you are in the middle of the intersection. 

Turn to your right so that you see a blue sign with a red swoosh on your left  and a shop with large red letters on your right.  Walk up the street, between these two buildings.  

You will come to an intersection.  Stop, and turn to your right.  You should see a red awning with light yellow lettering on your left and a glass-walled shop with neon green lights on your right.  Walk up the narrow road between these two.  

If you see a red umbrella on a hot dog cart on your right, you are on the right track, so just walk straight for a while.  

You will see some orange and white construction barriers and a green fence on your left.  You are about halfway there.  

You should soon see a orange ladder propped up against the building on your right.  Walk just past it, and you will see an orange cone on top of a small canopy on the left.  Touchdown the Bear is sitting right on the tip of this cone. 


 Follow the flow of traffic and turn right at the first intersection. Continue straight and turn right at the next intersection. Go forward and you will see a white plumbing van parked on your right in front of a funeral home with a green awning. Down the sidewalk to your right is a traffic cone. The cone is the touchdown.  Stand so you are facing the two diamond orange signs, one above the other. Step forward towards them and soon you can turn; you need to turn left. Continue on this street for awhile. You will pass one 3-way intersection, one 4-way intersection, and a 3-way opportunity to turn left. Then you'll be at an intersection--turn left. While you are still in that intersection, face left and there is an orange traffic barrier. Touchdown is on the top center of it. Face along with the flow of traffic. Move forward to the first intersection. Turn left. You should see some trees ahead on the right side of the street. Move forward through the next intersection. Keep going forward and stop just before the next intersection. Touchdown is on top of the pole on the right with the double street light. From your starting point, please turn around so that you are facing the taillights of some parked cars, and you can see large white letters painted on the road surface directly in front of you.  Walk toward those letters, and then keep moving straight until you come to an intersection.  

As soon as you pass a light, pastel green bicycle on your left, turn left in the intersection so that you are walking down a street with shops on both sides.  As you face down this street, you should see a shop with blue signs and yellow characters on your left, and a yellow and white wall on your right.  Walk between these two, and keep going straight until you reach another intersection.  

When you come to a large intersection, you will see a red awning on the opposite side (on the left) up ahead of you.  Keep walking forward until you are almost all the way across the intersection, and then turn left, so that you can walk up the street directly in front of this red awning.  After you make this turn, you want the red awning to be on your right, and a short, black chain-link fence to be on your left.  You should be facing the same direction as the parked cars on your street, and there should also be a green bike lane on your left.  

Walk a short distance up this road, until you see some white letters and arrows on the road surface on the left.  Between two sets of white letters is a large, curved arrow.  When you are standing right next to this arrow look forward toward the intersection.  Touchdown is sitting on the road, at the tip of the large straight arrow in the middle lane, if you are standing in the right spot, he should be easy to find. Move in the direction of traffic. Go straight through the first intersection. Pass the building with all the mail trucks on the left. Stop before you reach the orange and white construction barriers on the left. There will be a big tan doorway to your right with a red and white sign on it. Touchdown is in the middle of the sign. Turn so you are facing the intersection that is very close to the starting point. Go to the middle of the intersection and turn right. There will be a large tree on the left side of the road you can see as soon as you turn.Go straight until you reach the next intersection. Turn right again. On the left will be a wall with bushes peeking out over the top. Go straight all the way down this longer block. When you get to the next intersection. turn right again.You will be heading the same direction as traffic.Go straight a short distance until you see tables on the right side that have blue chairs at them. There is a tree there too. Touchdown is at the base of the tree on the ground. Turn so you are headed down the street the direction of the cars. At the intersection make a right. After you make the turn you will see red signs on the building to your left. Go straight. When you get to the next intersection continue going straight. There is a long faded red awning to the left of you. Keep going. You will pass a large red dumpster with graffiti on it to your right. Go a little further down. Just a short distance down you will see a dark blue dirty looking awning on the building to the left. There is a trash bag on the sidewalk near the front of that awning. Touchdown is on the trash Bag. Turn so you can see the tall building with  the needle in the far distance when you are driving down the road.  The building on your right should be red.  Follow this road until it T's into another and turn right.  There should be a glass building in front of you now.  Follow this road as it curves towards that building and turn right at the intersection.  There should be an arch on the right now.  Follow this road past the arch and turn right as soon as you can.  You should see a bright yellow sign with red in front of you now.  Follow that road as it curves around, watching on the right.  Turn right down the small road and stop when you enter it.   Look to the right and there is a blue newspaper machine in between two yellow ones near the corner.  Touchdown is sitting on the top of the highest part of the blue machine. Orient yourself with traffic and proceed. Turn left at the first light. Go through the first light on this street and turn right at the second. Stop after passing the yellow lion adverts. On the left sidewalk is a trashcan with a red bird. Touchdown is placed over the bird's head. Orient yourself so theres a brick building with a red awning to your left. and a brown and blue building to your right. Follow this curvy road to the first intersection. Make a left. Go straight and hang another left at the next intersection. Not far down this street, there will be two brick buildings with a red awning on your left. the touchdown is located in the middle of the first red awning. You are on a one way road, go with the flow of traffic to the next intersection and go right. Stay on this road and go straight through the first TWO intersections. When you get to the third intersection you will stop in the middle of it. You will have to your right a red and white store front. To the left, on the small median is a bunch of green trash bags. Turn to the corner on the right that has the red and white store front. On that corner is an older looking fire hydrant that almost blends in with the trash cans. Touchdown is at the top of this fire hydrant.  Face so  you are in the direction where the painted wall is on the further right corner. Go straight through this intersection. There will be a line of parked cars on the left side. As you approach the intersection there are some white and orange barriers. Take a right at this intersection. There will be a tall fence on the right side. Take a right at the next intersection. following the fence around the corner. On the left side of the street, there is a white building with green framed glass door. Decorative metal bars over the windows. The Touchdown is sitting in the arch window direction above the main door.  From the starting position, turn so you are facing the same direction as the flow of traffic. Move in this direction until you get to an intersection with a traffic light. Turn left at the light. Move in this direction a short distance until you get to another light. Turn left at this light also.  There will be some scaffolding on your  right. Move down the street until you get to a 2nd set of green scaffolding on your right. There is a large green mailbox with white graffiti  on the right sidewalk. Touchdown is sitting on top of the mailbox. Align yourself so the rental bike racks are on your left and the black fencing on your right. Head up to the intersection to make a right, and you'll make another right shortly after. You should have the park fencing from the start point on your right now. Head down to just before the next intersection and you should see a red fire hydrant with a silver tip, surrounded by two silver poles. Touchdown is on the silver tip of the hydrant. Orient yourself so that you are facing that close intersection. Go left. Continue to the next intersection, and turn left again. Continue to the next intersection, and turn left again. At the next intersection, on your right is a group of orange and white traffic cylinders. Touchdown is on the center cylinder. Align yourself to where you can see the front of the yellow car passing. Take a left out of the tunnel, then head to the first intersection. You should see a large group of people before you turn. Take a left, and go to the next intersection, then take another left. Follow this road until you see a green delivery truck with a leaf on it. Go three steps foward and you should see a white awning outside of a red brick building. Touchdown is on the address on the sign. Turn to face the intersection closest to you. Move forward, then turn left at the intersection. Go straight, passing the store with blue doors on your left. Keep going straight until you reach the intersection. There will be umbrellas on the corner to your right. Turn left. You will be on a street where every store name is listed on a black banner. Take a left at the first intersection. Stop when you reach the beige colored tree planter on your left. Ahead of you on the right is a fire hydrant. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and hang a left at the first intersection.  You should see scaffolding ahead on the right that is quite a bit higher than normal.  Head down this road and you will pass a red awning and then some more scaffolding on the right.
Go through the first intersection until you're almost on the crosswalk at the other end.  Right in front of you is a black sign with a white arrow pointing left.  Touchdown is hiding on this sign. Orient yourself so that you are facing the intersection.  Enter the intersection and turn left.  There will be a gray storefront with black lights sticking out to your right.  Go to the next intersection and turn left again.  There will be a yellow store sign with Chinese characters in red up ahead on your left.  Go to the next intersection.  Turn left again.  There will be a yellow striped awning on your right.  Go to the next intersection.  Turn left one last time.  There will be some graffitti art of two people holding hands on your right as well as some construction fencing.  Pass half of this fencing.  Ahead on your right is an orange and white construction barrel at the end of the fencing.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this barrel.   Turn so you'll be walking in the same direction the cars are going on this street.  Go forward until you come to an intersection, and turn left.  Go one short block to another intersection, and turn left again. You'll have construction scaffolding on your right as you start down that street.  When you've only gone about one step down that street, look at the construction scaffolding on the right. There's a sign about safety attached to the green wall, and a bright red light just above it.  The bear is right on top of the red light. With scaffolding to your right and shops to your left, go straight. Take a right at the first intersection, the one with a plant store to the left. Go straight. At the intersection that has a green lane to the left, take a right. Go straight past some yellow benches to the left. Keep going. There should be a silver entrance with a triangular roof to the right. Touchdown is sitting on it the roof. Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Move straight through the first intersection and at the second, turn right. Continue until you get to the next intersection. Soon before entering it, face right and there is a gray post with a blue stripe around the top of it. Touchdown is on top of the post. Walk down the street in the direction that puts the store with the blue awning on your left-hand side. 
Continue to the first intersection, where you'll see a store with a red sign on your right. Turn right at that intersection. 
Walk down this street, passing a building with primary color accents decorations on your left. 
At the intersection at the end of that building, take a right. 
Walk past the bike stand on your right-hand side.
Look for a fire hydrant on your left. Touchdown is on top of the small red awning next to the fire hydrant. 
 Align yourself with the scaffolding on your left, and the fencing on your right. Head up to the first intersection and make a left.

At the next intersection, you're going to take a right, then take a left up to the side street in front of you pretty much immediately. Stop in front of the step entrance for the large red brick building to your left. 

touchdown is sitting in the windw of the door in front of the stairs, with the white sticker on it. Turn so the large stone building with many stairs is on your right. Take a left at this intersection. Go straight past the row of blue bikes on the right.At the light take a left. Go straight. At the next intersection go straight. Stop when you see a white sedan parked on the left side of the street. Touchdown is in front of the red sign above the white car.  Follow traffic to the intersection and go left.  Go left again at the next intersection.

Follow that road, past the scaffolding to your left, to the final intersection. Enter it, so you're standing almost in the middle of it, and look to your right. You'll see a concrete island with a steel metal gray pole with a don't walk sign.

The touchdown is on the concrete at the base of that pole, against the corner of the pole diagonal to you. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and step into the intersection and hang a right.
There should be fencing on your right and a green awning on your left.
Head down this block and hang a right at the first intersection.  You will have more green awnings to the left.
Turn right one more time at the next intersection.  You will now have olive colored awnings to the left.
Move forward to the end of the olive awning on the left, behind you on the right will be a fire hydrant where Touchdown is hiding. Turn until you are facing a bridge with red metal bars on top of it. You should have pointy pine trees on your left. Walk forward until you are in the middle of the intersection right before the bridge. Turn right so that the bridge is on you left. Walk forward until you are in the middle of the next intersection. Turn right until you are facing down the street with the white and red brick wall on the right. There should be a fenced in court on the left. Walk straight forward until you are at the next intersection. There should be blue metal scaffolding on your right. On the street corner to your right there is a garbage can. Touchdown is placed in the bottom of the garbage can. Face in the direction of traffic. Go forward and pass a fenced off area on the left. When you get to the intersection, turn right. You'll see a short building with blue awning on your right. Go down to the next intersection and turn right. You'll see a big sign with a sideways bottle of alcohol on your right, and a building with graffiti of colorful city buildings on your left. Go down this street, passing two big red doors with red windows and an American flag above them. Keep going until you get to the middle of the intersection. There will be a grey and brick building on your front-left. You will see a trash can on that corner, with a green top. Touchdown is sitting on top of it.  With the green wall on your left, and gray garage door on your right, move with traffic to the intersection ahead, and turn left. At the next intersection, turn left again. After  you turn, you'll have a green wall on your left and buses behind a black fence on your right. 

Stay in the left lane as you move forward. When you get to the next intersection, move into the middle of it as if you are going straight. On your right (in the intersection) are orange and white traffic cones. At the corner of cones closest to you is a pile of three cones stacked on top of one another. Touchdown is sitting on the top of this stack of cones.  Turn with the flow of cars and head forward out of the tunnel.  There will be a point where you can go in 3 directions, one of which is behind you, but into the other lane.  Go that direction and head onto the bridge.  Stop at the end of the guardrail on your left.  Look to the middle of the road.  THe bear is on top of the red fire hydrant. Turn so that the scaffolding is to your right. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left. There should be black round awnings to your left. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left. There should be orange and white barriers to your right. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left. There should be scaffold to your left. Walk forward and stop when you are standing beside the bus stop bench on your right.

Facing the bench Touchdown is sitting on the very right end of the bench. Position yourself so the colorful awning above a blue door is on your right. You will be facing oncoming traffic. Go to the first intersection and turn right. Now, there will be green scaffolding on your right and you are once again looking at the headlights of cars in front of you. 

At the next traffic light, turn right again. After you turn, you'll have three small dark red awnings in a row on your left. Pass those awnings and start looking for a grayish blue brick building on your right that has two blue awnings. Just before that blue building begins is a flight of tan-colored stairs with black and white garbage bags beside it. At the top of that flight of stairs is a pair of dark planters. Touchdown is sitting on the landing right between the planters.  Orient yourself so the church is in front of you. Turn left at the intersection. Turn left at the next intersection with the red awnings to your left. Go straight past the bikes and a green scaffolding to your right. There should be two red awnings to your left. Touchdown is on the smaller awning. Go with traffic flow down this fairly long block. At the end of it before the intersection is a building on the left with graffiti painting on the bottom. Go right at the intersection.
At the next corner turn right. 
Go past the red brick on the left, the light blue, the red brick, the light yellow, then when you get to a white building with arched windows to your left, you will find Touchdown on the step in front of the glass door on that building.
 Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
You should see scaffolding on your right blue awnings on your left.
Go down this road, past the 3-way intersection leading to the right and hang a right after the row of blue bikes on the left.
Go straight through the next intersection and stop when you're next to the business with a pink neon sign and before you get to the construction barriers and light up sign in the middle of the road.  Touchdown is hiding on the large black sign in the middle of the road that is not lit up.

 Stand so that you are walking with the flow of traffic. Move forward, passing through on intersection, and continue about the same distance. You will pass a green scaffolding section on your right, and then see a white sign on your left with a rainbow. Touchdown is the center of the rainbow. Orient yourself so that you are following traffic. there will be a green wall with striped concrete barriers to your right. Go straight to the first intersection and turn right.

That same wall will be on your right again. Go straight to the next intersection and turn right.

That wall will once again, be on your right. Go straight past the first intersection. You will see a lime green 18 wheeler on your right. Just past it you will see a man in bright yellow leaning against the concrete. There is a tree just before this man. The touchdown is in the Y shape of the tree. Hello. Please orient yourself with the flow of traffic. There will be a bridge up ahead. To your right, there will be green awning on top of scaffolding near the buildings. 

Walk forward while keeping an eye on the right side the whole time. 

Down below to the right, you will pass a path with a green bicycle lane lined with white poles. You will pass a white building with a maze design on the rooftop. 

Then, there will be a wide, white building with white patios as you continue forward. You will pass a red brick building with a white ramp leading to a brown door with a black and white sign above it. 

Next, there will be a park with green benches. After the park, there will be a green and red basketball court.

After that, you will approach a tan and red brick building with white stripes going across the floor levels. The very front is all red brick with white rooftops and white accent windows. 

Please stop when you reach the end of this building where it meets some scaffolding with green awning. There is a white tarp draped where these objects meet. Touchdown will be on the left black spotlight on the wall of the red brick building. There are two, so make sure you pick the left. Good luck!
 With the fenced in area to your left, move with the flow of traffic down this long block, and turn left at the first intersection.  Now, there's a green sign with white writing on your right. 

Go the next intersection, and turn left again. After you turn, there's a parking lot on your left and a long flight of stairs on a white building on your right. Pass the stairs, and there are black awnings with red trim and white letters on your left. In front of the awning over the window (not over the door), there's a fire hydrant near the curb. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant.  Hello. Please orient yourself with the flow of traffic. There will be a red brick building with white doors and stairways leading up to the doors on your left. On your right side, there will be a red building with tan stripes all the way through it.

Go straight down this long path until you reach the first intersection. There will be a building with large glass windows that has a red and black awning on your left side. Turn right.

After the turn, you will see a white building on your right side with rounded panels. Go straight until the next intersection. Turn right. 

Once you have turned, you will notice a bright orange construction area with barricades to your left side next to a building with a dark brown awning that has bright red letters. You will now travel against the flow of traffic. Go straight down this path a little bit.

Keep your eyes on your left side as you continue straight. When you see green rounded postal mailbox, slow down. Please stop when you are flush and equal with a black awning that has white numbers on it. 

Touchdown is on the black awning in the center with the white numbers on it. Good luck! Turn and face the same direction of traffic the orange/white barriers are on your left.
Proceed ahead towards the traffic light up ahead and go straight through that traffic light.
At the second traffic light turn right
There is a blue storefront to your right and a subway entrance to the left.
Go straight though the intersection just ahead.
At the second intersection you will turn right .
Black awning with white writing on the right, faded orange and white awnings to the left.
Almost there.
Just after the black awning, see to your right side the restaurant with a light brown awning and a spoon and fork of that sign.
Touchdown is covering the fork

 Turn around and make a left at the light you are closest to. Go a few yards and make another left turn at the first light you come to. There is a park on your left go past the park to the first street and turn left and stop there is a building on your right with a green sign and a couple of letters on it and Touchdown is sitting between the letters of this sign. Align yourself with the flow of traffic. Head straight past the first series of left choices, and make a right at the four corner area with construction men. Head down this road and turn right at the intersection. You should now be down a small road. At the end of the road, make a right. Two steps before the end of the intersection, you will see a mickey mouse graffiti on your left. Touchdown is on Mickey's ear. Face in the direction of the traffic and go straight until you get to the first street light. Make a right and go down that street. After you pass two street lights, stop when you see the white building with the colorful squiggly design near the building with the yellow arches on your right. Touchdown is on the circular part of the blue bus sign in front of the white building with colorful squiggly lines on it. First orient yourself so that you are going in the direction with traffic and the building with the green awnings is on your right . As you walk down this street, you'll see a market with a red awning, keep walking straight. At the intersection, turn right. The median with trees will be on your left. At the intersection, turn right. Re orient yourself so that the pedestrian walkway is on your left and you see a storefront with a green awning just ahead on your right. Walk down this street. You'll pass a rug store on your right. There will be construction barriers on your left as you walk. Continue walking. As you approach the intersection, you'll see some construction. Re orient yourself once you're past the intersection to be right by the orange construction sign that says Watch Your Step Road Plates Ahead. This sign is on the wooden barrier next to the sign with the arrows. Touchdown will be right under the Watch Your Step Road Plates Ahead sign. You're basically starting out in an intersection.  Note that one corner that you can see has a red patch on the sidewalk at the corner.  There is also a subway entrance on this corner. Turn so you'll be passing the red patch and subway entrance on your right, and move out of the intersection in that direction.  
Go straight through the first three-way intersection you come to.  After that the road you're on makes a Y.  Stay to the left of this Y.  You'll then come to a stop sign intersection where you'll turn left.  
Now you'll have a brick sidewalk and some trees on your right side.  At the next intersection, which is a four-way, go straight through.  Immediately past that is another intersection, where you'll turn left (your street curves left a little, then you actually make the left turn).  You should now see a restaurant with a green awning and bright pink planter boxes on your left side.  Past the restaurant with the green awning is a brick building with a black awning.  Stop when you're even with the join between this brick building and the building past it.  Turn to face the buildings, and off to your right are some closed orange umbrellas.  The bear is on top of the first umbrella.   Facing the flow of traffic, proceed to the first intersection and make a right. a low gray building with blue signs should be on the left. At the next intersection make another right, again keeping with the flow of traffic. you will see trees with twinkle lights around the trunks on the right. go straight through the next intersection and pass a building on the left with a large arch over the entrance. the building on the right has signs with red letters and a woman lying across them. After the building with the red signs, you will see on your left a building with a brightly lit awning and posters of people in black pants and a black tie. Touchdown is on the ground immediately below the first poster on the left. Orient yourself so that there is an intersection directly in front of you.  Enter this intersection and turn right.  There will be a purple advertising flag on your left.  Go to the next intersection and turn right again.  There will be a yellow pedestrian crossing sign on your right.  Head down the street until you find a three-way intersection.  Stop in the middle of this intersection.  Ahead of you will be orange and white construction barriers on the right.  On the left will be an orange construction barrel and two cones on the sidewalk.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the construction barrel.   Turn so you are moving in the same direction as traffic and there are green awnings held by scaffolding on your right.  Go to the intersection and turn left.  Then go to the intersection and turn left again.  Down the long block to the intersection where you make one last left.  Walk to the next intersection but stop before you enter it.  Look to your right.  Next to a tree is a large blue box with a blue and white logo on it.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this box. Go down the street in the same direction as traffic, such that the parked blue bikes are on your left.  At the end of the block, turn right.   You should pass a restaurant with hanging yellow lights, continue down this road and cross the street at the end of the block. you should see an orange newspaper box and a red newspaper box on the corner.  touchdown bear is sitting on top of the orange newspaper box.   Face the same direction of the cars, with the red doors on your left. Go forward, make a right at the first traffic light. Keep going, then make your last right at the second intersection. There will be a black and green sign on your right with a green and white logo. Go forward and stop after you pass the traffic light. Touchdown is on the black and white sign with the arrow on your right, on the same pole with crosswalk sign. With the traffic cones to your left follow the flow of traffic around this curve. Soon you'll come across a fork going beneath an overpass, go to the left fork.  Up ahead will be a tunnel.  When you get to the area where there's an oncoming ramp from your right, stop.  Look over to the left of the tunnel. There's three garage doors over there.  Touchdown is in the middle of the round wreath over those doors.  Follow the flow of traffic with the blue awning on your right, and make a right at the intersection. Pass the green awning on your right, and continue to the end of the block where you will make a right. Follow the traffic, passing the white building on your right and make your last right at the intersection. Pass the painting that is on the storefront on your right and stop when you reach the brown, brick building with the black awning on your right. Touchdown is on the center of the number on that awning. Follow traffic up the wide road and take a right at the end of the block. You will be on a street with a building having a metal under-hang with lights on the left and will see scaffolding ahead to your right.  Go all the way to the end of this very long block, and proceed straight through the intersection to stand on the pedestrian crosswalk across it. It's very important you don't go past it.

You will now have scaffolding to your right, and ahead and to your left you'll see three white round concrete planters, each with a garden gnome bush in it.  

Touchdown is sitting on the very tip of the first bush - the one closest to you.  If you're not looking at it at angle, where it's ahead of you and left, move so you are.

 Position yourself where all the park vehicle is facing. Follow the road passing all the fences, scaffolding, blue awning till you arrive at an intersection. Make a left turn at the intersection and follow the path till you arrive at a crosswalk and make a left turn in which you should notice a red brick building on your right near a traffic light. There should be a trash can below the traffic light. The touchdown is sitting on top of the trash bin. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, head down and turn right.

You should see a row of red doors on your right as you pass by. At the last red door, to the left of it, will be a bent pipe. Touchdown is sitting on top of the pipe. Turn so you see a green trash can just up to your left in front of a building tan on the bottom but brick on the top. There will be some scaffolding up ahead on the left. You will also see a mailbox to your right as you start out with traffic flow.

Go to the next corner and turn left.

Go down this road until you can see the light. Black awnings are on your left, a stairway leading up to a gray colored building is on your right. Touchdown centered on the top of the dark gray framing over the door. 

 Orient yourself so you are  following the flow traffic with the intersection just in front of you. Proceed to the intersection and take a right. You should see a pile of black trash bags on the right. Continue down this road until you reach the next intersection and take a right. You should see a red brick building on the right and some broken construction barriers on the left. Continue forward to the next intersection and take a right into the oncoming lane of traffic. You must be in the oncoming Lane of traffic, you are not in the correct Lane if you are following the flow of traffic. Once you are facing the oncoming lane of traffic continue forward until you pass the crosswalk. Look for a pallet of red bags and a red fire hydrant to the left on your left. Click the top of the red fire hydrant that is partially exposed to find touchdown. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, there should be arrows pointing to the flow in front of you. Head through the intersection, straight. Head to before the next intersection where you will see the flow of traffic arrows again, and stop there. In front of you on your right, you should see a yellow box with an ad on it. Touchdown is sitting on top of the middle of the box. turn so that you are going towards the nearest intersection that you are closest to and make a right turn.go to the third traffic light and turn right you will now go past a doughnut shop on your right stop in front of the restaurant with outside seating and to the right of the red umbrellas there is an oak barrel and Touchdown is sitting on top of that barrel. Turn and follow traffic down the street. A sign that is black and white with 2 arrows on it will be on your right with a red and white sign on top. Continue straight at the intersection Look for a red and white sign with a star in the left top corner on the right side of the roa. Touchdown is sitting on top of the sign..  You'll be going with the flow of traffic, with pink and white signs and orange/white   construction barriers on your left ahead. Go straight to the next intersection and turn left. Near the next intersection is a food cart on your left, with a blue and white van parked afterwards.  There's a traffic cone next to front wheel of the van, Touchdown is on top of the traffic cone. Turn around so you're facing the opposite way of the flow of traffic down the one-way street towards the marquees with neon lights. Continue past the famous marquees until you get to a large crowded intersection. At that first intersection, turn left -- again the wrong way down a one-way. Travel two blocks, through 2 intersections. Just past the 2nd intersection, you'll see a number of newspaper bins on the left side of the street on the sidewalk. On top of the blue bin is where Touchdown is sitting. Turn and go in the same direction as the traffic. A building with wood trim will be on the right. Turn left at the first intersection. A glass building will be on your left. Turn left at the next intersection where the glass building will now be on your right. A short distance past this is a small blue awning with white on the  right.  Touchdown is sitting in the middle front on top.  Look for the bike painted in the street behind the white van and go in this direction. Turn left at the first intersection. Turn left again at the next intersection.
Look left and stop next to the store with the purple awing with white letters. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the window Ac unit above the store. Go with traffic flow to the next corner and turn left.

Still with traffic flow, go through the first 2 intersections. When you reach the third, just as you go through it you will see planters on the left. Touchdown is sitting on top of the plants in the very first planter on the left. Orient yourself such that the building under construction with the long orange barricade in front is to your left.  Proceed forward.  When you get to the red and white triangular sign where the street divides between going straight and merging back onto the main road, jog to your left in order to merge back onto the main road, then keep going straight.  When you get to the stoplight, turn right.  The right lane of the road will be painted reddish.  Go to the next stoplight and turn left.  There will be a building with a blue stripe on your left.  Move froward, passing some scaffolding on your right.  Right after this will be some black metal fencing against a white building.  Stop right after you pass the two shorts sets of this fencing.  Turn to your right.  Against the white building, neat a gray trash can is a fancy-looking gold thing with a black square in the center.  Touchdown is in the middle of this black square. Hello there!

1. Begin by turning to the right until a food cart with a red and yellow umbrella is to your left. Move into the intersection and take a left. After reorienting yourself, the food cart should now be to your right and a park should be to your left.

2. Pass through the next intersection, and then take a left at the intersection after that (a three-way). When you reorient yourself, there should be a pile of white and black garbage bags to your left and a business with an apple logo to your right.

3. Take another left at the next intersection. When you reorient yourself, there should be a building with a wooden ground floor to your right. Your destination is close.

4. Keep an eye on the right side of the road. When you pass by a black awning with a black flag above it, you're almost there! To the left of that building is an ornate building with four columns in front of it.

5. When you're directly in front of the doorway to this building, stop. On either side of this doorway is a lamp. Touchdown is in the center of the right lamp.

Good luck! :) Turn until the black fence is to your left. Walk forward until you reach the connecting street on the right. Walk down that street to the next intersection and turn right. Green doors should be on your right. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. There should be a red post in front of you to the left. Walk down the street until you are in front of a small red sign on the black metal fence. Touchdown is in the middle of the red sign. Step into the intersection that you are right next to. Then you need to leave the intersection in that same direction, so that you will pass on your left the white corner building, and on your right you will pass a gas station. Continue to the next intersection and turn left. On your left corner is a brick building. Pass the row of bikes on your right. Continue until you are nearing the end of a large white building on your right; close to the end of it is a small orange sign on a pole. Touchdown is on that orange sign. Turn to face the direction that traffic is moving. You'll have the yellow stone building on your right a building with a grey flag on your left. Move down the street in the direction of traffic until you get to a traffic light. At the traffic light, turn right. Travel down the street until your first traffic light. At the light you'll see a sign with a red star on it, turn right down that street. Travel down the street past the scaffolding, past the church on your right. On the left sidewalk, you'll see a circular street lamp that looks like a globe. Touchdown is on the lamp. Position yourself in which there should be a couple of yellow mixed with blue or red umbrellas on your right. At the intersection, make a right turn. Once you make a right turn. There should be a red awning on your right and a purple and yellow banner. Continue forward passing these two and eventually you should arrive an intersection. You should be near the cross walk but don't go pass it. If you look to your left, you should notice a bicycle chain to a pole. The touch down is sitting on the seat of the bicycle. Follow the flow of traffic and turn left at the first intersection. Go forward and then turn left at the next intersection. You will see scaffolding on both sides as you continue. Turn left at the next intersection and stop immediately. The shop on your left has a blue triangle on the sign. This is where the touchdown is.  Orient yourself so you are going the same direction the cars are travelling.  Go down the road to the end of the block and take a right at the intersection.  Go forward to the next intersection and turn right again.  Begin travelling down the tree lined road.  Ahead on your left is a long green awning coming.  Just past that is a green plywood awning held up by scaffolding.  Come to the beginning of that and stop.  Turn left so you're facing the scaffolding.  Between the green fabric awning on your left and the plywood awning is a window that has an air conditioner in it.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the air conditioner.   From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  You should be facing a large intersection, directly in front of you. 

Walk forward into the middle of this intersection, and then take a right.  You should pass a white van parked on your left, between two orange cones, as you start walking down this road.  

When you come to the next intersection, turn to your right, and walk down the two-way street  A shop with a black border and orange letters should be on your left as you start walking down this street. It will also have an orange construction fence in front of it.  

Just walk straight down this road, following the red lane, for a long distance until you come to another intersection.  When you pass a striped brick building with black canopies over the doorways, you are about halfway there.  

When you reach the intersection, take a right, so that a stone building with blue stripes in its windows will be on your right as you pass.  Walk a very short distance forward, and look for a bus stop on your right.  When you can clearly see the black bench underneath a glass canopy, Touchdown is sitting in the middle of that bench, between two silver metal dividers. Face in the direction of the traffic with the plant area on your right and on the yellow pedestrian sign on your left. Go straight and stop when you pass the burgundy canopy on your right. Touchdown is to your left in the center of the blue door. Follow the flow of traffic and turn right at the first intersection. Keep right as you continue down the street. You will go straight through another intersection. There will be a blue shop on your left. The touchdown is on the center of the front tire of the dark blue van parked in front of the shop.  Going with the flow of traffic, go to the first intersection and turn right.  At the next intersection turn right again.  There will be cars parallel parked on your right and slanted back in parking on your left.  Touchdown will be  on the red and white sign on your right near the corner of the building on your right. Turn until you're going with the traffic. Go forward and turn left at the first intersection. Go straight and turn left again at the next intersection. At this point you should see orange construction barriers on the right . Keep going straight a little past the orange barriers until there's a school on your right with 2 blue doors. The bear is on the very middle of the blue doors. Turn and go in the same direction as traffic. Go straight through the upcoming intersection. At the next intersection, go left. There will be a large green building with tan trim on your left as you continue straight. Next you will pass a yellow building on your left.  You will soon pass by orange and white construction barriers along the street on your left. Walk past them. Just past those barriers, you will see a brown canopy with white letters above the sidewalk at an entrance to a building on the right. Go just past this canopy and the white building it is connected to. Stop in front of the next building, a red brick with a dark colored door. Touchdown is sitting on the ground just below the doorknob.  Go in the same direction as traffic.  There will be a lane painted red on your right. 
 Move forward to the first intersection.  Pass through this intersection.  Stop at the second intersection you reach.  Turn left.  There will be a painted red lane on your left and a building with lots of windows on your right.  Proceed to the next intersection.  Turn left again.  The red painted lane will be to your right after you turn.  Go down this street and stop just before you reach the first crosswalk you encounter.  Turn to your right.  There is a busstop with a bench.  Touchdown is sitting on this bench, on the right edge of it.   Go in the same direction as traffic.  There will be fenced in basketball courts to your left.  Move forward to the first intersection.  Turn left.  The basketball courts will continue to be on your left side.  Proceed to the next intersection.  Turn left.  The courts will again be to your left.  Move down this street.  Once you pass all of the black fencing on the left that surrounds the courts and then a parking lot, stop.   Turn 90 degrees to your left.  You'll see where the fencing meets a brick building.  Near that place is a small stack of orange construction cones.  Touchdown is sitting on top of these cones.  
 Hello there!

1. Make sure that you're going with the flow of traffic. There should be a gray awning followed by a yellow awning to your right and a large park to your left.

2. Follow this road around a slight curve, and take a right at the first intersection that you meet. There should be a building with brown awnings and red and yellow flags to your right and a building with teal and orange doors and windows to your left.

3. Follow this road for a while. You'll pass through two intersections (a four-way and a three-way). Your destination is near the next intersection.

4. On the last building on the left, you should see four red and white squares. Stop when you're even with the first one. Touchdown is in the center of it.

Good luck! :) Go with the flow of traffic until you are almost at the next intersection.  There will be a building on your right that is black with yellow letters.  There's two flags hanging on this business.  Touchdown is the center of the blue sign. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
You should see orange fencing on your left and a store with blue Asian writing on your right.  Go forward.
Turn left at the next intersection.  You should see a dirty red awning followed by a blue awning on your right.  Go forward.
You should see scaffolding ahead on the right.
Turn left at the next intersection.
Go forward through the first intersection.
Go forward until your almost at the next intersection.  You'll see a store sign on the left that is neon green and black with white writing.  Touchdown will be on the first one of these signs (there's 2) on the lettering in the smaller square. Turn, so that the gray building is to your left. Get yourself to the first intersection and make a right, there two glass towers in front of you. Go forward and make a right at the first traffic light where you see the big flag on the building. Stop before you reach the big entryway in the building. Touchdown is on the red rectangular sign in front of the entryway. Go with the flow of traffic to the first intersection and take a right turn. There will be a red car parked on the right corner.  Go straight through the next intersection.  At the end of this road, take a right turn.  You'll have some columns to your right.  At the next intersection, take a right turn. Ahead on the right will be some scaffolding.  Touchdown is  on a green pipe on the wall before the scaffolding begins. Look for the blue mail box next to the orange barrel and go in this direction. Turn left at the first intersection. A purple awing will be on the left. Turn left again at the next intersection. Stop at the crosswalk before entering the next intersection.  Look left to the restaurant. There are two lights on either side of the door. Touchdown is sitting on the light that is turned on.  Turn and face the direction traffic is going. Go straight through the first intersection. At the second intersection make a left. Go straight until you reach the next intersection. There is a green mailbox to the left on the corner. Touchdown is on top of that mailbox. Align yourself so the store with the multi colored asterisk in the window is on your left. There should be the other side of traffic on your right, and head through the first intersection straight against traffic. Head down to the intersecction with the white tipped bells in it and take a right. Stop here and the closest bell to you in the middle in front of the light pole, touchdown is sitting on the white part that looks like a handle. Go follow the traffic direction, there should be a truck in front of you with a red letter logo and their name in that logo. When you reach the first intersection , turn right. Once you made the turn, you should see the orange sign with black letters on the pole to your right. Now go straight on this road till you reach the intersection. There will be a store with red letters on black banner to your right and some yellow/white traffic divider in the middle of the road. Turn left here at this intersection. Once you made the turn you will see a bus with blue letters on the back  and side of it. In front of the bus there is a shuttle that has drawings all over it. On the back part of the bus there is a red logo with 6 letters in it. The touchdown is in the middle of that logo  Turn and travel with the flow of traffic for the side of the road you are on. Travel down the bridge, into the intersection. Take a left. There is another intersection just ahead. Move until your just about to hit it. You should stop just before you cross the first white line marking it. Look to your right. There is a door with a small plant hedge on each side of it. 

Touchdown is on top of the right hedge on the front corner closest to you.  Go WITH flow, with scaffolding to your right to the light and go RIGHT. Go RIGHT again at the next light. The corner shop on your left will have a blue sign band with white letters.   STOP just as your reach the first of the red awnings on your right. There should be two more clearly visible on your right, above the corrugated steel overhead doors over the shop windows.

FIND Touchdown, ahead and to your left, impaled on the tip of the flagpole with the American flag. Orient yourself with the flow of traffic. At the end of the block, take a left. Travel straight through two intersections. Just after passing through the second intersection, there'll be green scaffolding on your left and a trash can on your right below a parking sign. Touchdown is on the opening of the trash can. Turn so that the black iron fence is on your right side. Go straight through the intersection. About halfway down this block on the right side  you will see where the fenced parking lot ends. The rest of the fence has bushes. Right on the corner of the fence where the parking ends and the bushes start, Touchdown is on the ground at that fence post where they meed. Orient yourself to go in the same direction as traffic.  Go straight through the first four intersections.  Just as you go through the fourth intersection you should have a large brick building on your right with two flags.  Go past this building to the next intersection and turn right. Just after you turn right, you should see a doorway with a burgundy awning and white door frame.  Touchdown bear is on the center of the front portion of the burgundy awning.   Go to the closest intersection and turn right. A red dumpster will be on your right.
Keep straight at the next intersection. A basketball court will be on your left.
Turn right at the next intersection. A playground will be on the left and right. 
Go straight at the next intersection and look right.  When your next to the second park bench to the right, you will see a black bike leaning on the fence. Touchdown is sitting on the seat of the black bike

 Follow traffic to the light,  go left, and at the next light go left again, down a cobblestone street.

Go just past the k-walls and rotate right, where you should be staring straight at a brown wood door under a red brick archway.  To the right of the arch, on the sidewalk, is a bronze piece of artwork.  Touchdown is sitting atop it. Turn so you are heading with the flow of traffic.  Go right at the first intersection.  Then take the next right.  Go through one intersection (Through the smoke).  There is an orange barricade on the right, stop next to it.  It ill look grey. To the right is a dirt square with something red inside.  The bear is on the red thing.   Turn so you're facing the intersection that's very close to you, and go straight through that intersection.  Go straight through another intersection, then at the next on you come to turn right.  Go one short block (past all the rental bikes on your left), and turn left at the intersection. Stop when you're just out of the intersection (just after the left turn).  There's a theater on your left with big movie posters.  The bear is on the left-most door between the posters - right in the center of the door. With the scaffolding to your left, go to and through the light. You'll be going with traffic down a narrow one way, with k-walls and scaffolding on your left.  Take a right when you read the 3-way intersection, into a cramped alley of a street. 

At the end of that you'll reach a T-intersection with scaffolding directly in front of you; go left here.  This is buggy to navigate, expect to use the mouse.  Eventually you'll have many red awnings to your right. Go left at the light. (Blindly, through the wall; you'll have an arrow. Mechanics in instructions due to buggy map.)

There will be k-walls to the left, and you'll see a red awning ahead to your right. Stop before the is green backing to the chain-link fence on the left, and rotate right.  You will see two green Statue Of Liberty sculptures. One's torch has a lit light. Touchdown is atop it.

 Turn so you'll be going in the opposite direction of the cars on this one-way street.  Walk most of the way down this long block, until you see some "No Parking" cones blocking off an area near the curb on your left.  They're not exactly shaped like normal cones, but they say No Parking on them.  Move to the far end of the patch of cones, and the bear is sitting on top of the one closest to the ambulance. If you are in the correct position there are several homes to your right a brown one a blue one and a beige one are all in a row the gray and brown ones have two blue trash cans and a gray trashcan running between them.
Continue straight on the street. If you are going the correct way you will be passing a gray brick building on your left. This building has a black fence around it.
Take this street to the first intersection then make a right.
If you've made the correct right on your right will be a building that is brick with arch Windows on the second floor and storefronts on the first floor. A short distance further you will pass a building with a red awning with white writing on the right.
Once you reach the next intersection please make a right. When you are on the street you can look to your right or your left and see subway entrances. Continue straight past all of the orange construction fencing.
You will now see a small red building with a four squared white window.
Touchdown is sitting directly in front of that window. Position yourself to face the crosswalk and the red door will be on your left. Go into the intersection and take a left so that the building with red doors is still on your left. At the next intersection take another left. There will be a beige and red building with black fire escapes on your right. Go straight. You will come to a spot where it will y off to the right you want to stay straight. Don't go to the right. You will then dead end at a stop sign. Take a left. There will be a short iron fence on your right and trees lining the fence. Go straight  a short ways until you see the scaffolding on your left on the red building. Look to your left. There will be a dark bluish gray door with two gold number in the glass above it. Touchdown will be directly on those numbers.  Turn so the store with the red sign is on your left. Go down this street. At the intersection take a left. Go straight and take a left at the next intersection. Go down this street, and take a left at the next intersection you come to. This street  has a business to your right with a green awning. Go straight down this street. At the next light take one last left. You will notice the same store that you started out seeing on your left is there once more! In front of this store there are a few newspaper machines. Touchdown is sitting on the top-middle of the red one. Go with the flow of traffic. You should see yellow cabs all around. Go to the intersection and take a right. There should be a delivery truck on your right. Go all the way down to the intersection. As you start to pass through you will see a green garbage bin on your right. The top middle will be your touchdown.  Turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  The orange and white wall should be on your right.  Walk forward and stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to.  

Turn to your left so that you face down a road with a brick walled building on your right, and a lamppost with a bright orange sign on your left.  There should also be some orange barrels on the right up ahead. 

Walk down this road and stop when you come to the next intersection.

Turn to your left.  You should be facing down a narrow street with scaffolding on the right and some more orange barrels, some large pipes, and a hot dog cart on the left.  Walk down this narrow road, keeping the barrels and pipes on your left.  

Walk straight for a while, until you have passed a section of scaffolding with a green awning on the left (there will also be more scaffolding on the right).  

Once you have passed the scaffolding on the left, look for a small dark colored motor-scooter parked on the left.  It has a beige colored seat.  

Touchdown the Bear is in the middle of the front wheel of this bike. Orient yourself so you are following the flow traffic with the red bus lane in the road to your right and the scaffolding with the green awning on your left. Move forward to the nearby intersection and go straight. There will be several trees on the sidewalk to the left and the entrance to a parking area  up ahead on your right. Continue forward to the next intersection and take a left. Once again you will see trees lining the road on the left. Continue forward passing scaffolding with green awnings on your right. Continue forward to the next intersection and take a left. Stop immediately. In front of you to your right will be a black trash bin in front of a light pole. Touchdown is sitting in the trash bin. Turn so the stairs are on your left.  Follow the flow of traffic to the intersection ahead and turn right.  The large electronic billboard is on your right now.  Follow this road, against the flow of traffic, past the brown building on your right.   Keep going until you are almost next to the brown awning after the opening for the loading dock.   To the right of the brown awnings is a red rectangular sign.  Touchdown is sitting on top of that sign. Follow the the same direction as the moving vehicle. As you arrive at your first intersection up ahead please make a right at the intersection. Follow the cars through the one way alley passing all the bikes and scaffolding. As you continue forward you should notice an intersection up ahead. There should be two bikes on your left hand side chain to a pole or railing. Position yourself where you are in front of the first bike when your facing towards it. The touchdown is sitting on top of the bicycle seat Go with the flow of traffic so that the basketball courts are on your right.Go to the traffic light and turn left.Going towards the water in front of you stop as you cross the road and on the left side of the road there is an island with a lot of flowers at the start of the flowers there are 2 red poles and Touchdown is in front of the first pole You should be in front of an intersection. The direction you want to head towards to is your left. In which if you made the right choice you should be in front of an organic market on your right. Head straight until you arrive half way in which you should see a sign on your right that points to a one way road. Head in the direction of the one way road on your right. Keep on heading straight passing the stop sign and pass the blue awning on your right. Eventually you should arrive at a cleaning service with a green awning. There should be a ladder hanging near the awning on your right. Next to the cleaning service you should see two wooden stool. The touchdown is sitting on top of one of the stool that is close to the cleaning service. Turn so the bus depot is on you left-hand side. 
Walk down the street to the first intersection, passing the a traffic cone near a traffic sign on your right.
At the intersection, take a right. 
Walk down the street, towards the large, overhead highway sign. 
At the intersection after this sign, take a right.
Walk down the street towards the yellow building. 
Before you reach the yellow building, you'll see a wall on your left that has a large, turquoise semi-circle painted on it. 
Touchdown is on top of the street sign in front of the semi-circle. 
 Get turned so the green wall and construction road barriers are on your left. Go to the intersection. Make a right turn. You will come to a small 3 way intersection. Make a right. To your left is a brick and wrought iron fenced in area. Ahead as you move down the road on the right you'll see a bright red overhang. As soon as you are almost next to the scaffolding on the left side that has blue bikes under it come to a stop. Touchdown is on the ground at the base of the tree that is right before the scaffolding.  Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Pass 2 lefts.  Go through an intersection.  Pass the cones on the left, and look back at the last one.  The bear is on top of it (By the truck). Turn so you face in the same direction as the cars. Walk to the end of the block. At the intersection, turn right. On the new road on your right you'll see a red awning and then a long green awning just past. Turn right at the intersection just past the green awning. Walk down the block. You'll see a dark blue rounded awning to your left. Past that will be a parking payment machine on the left and right of the road. Closer to you than either of those parking machines is a fire hydrant on the right. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant. Turn so the row of blue bikes are on your left side. Go down this street. At the intersection you come to take a right. Go a very short distance and take a right at the light. Stop as soon as you get on this street. There are two mailboxes on the sidewalk on the sidewalk to your left. Touchdown is sitting on the top middle of the one closest to you. Follow traffic, past the red awning on your left,  and go through the light. Watch to the right for a passage between two red brick buildings, with red brick pillars and an ornate black gate leading to a white framed glass door.  There's a small curved orange light above and left of the left brick pillar, to the right of the grey fire escape. Touchdown is atop it. Position yourself so the median with shrubs and trees is on your left and the intersection is right in front of you. There are some bikes in front of a store on your right, as well. Turn left at that traffic light in front of you. After you turn, a gray and dark red building will be on your right and a light tan and bright blue building will be just up ahead on your left. 

Just past a row of rental bikes on your left, you'll get to a traffic light. Turn left here. The next intersection is just a short distance ahead, and you'll make one more left turn when you get there. After turning, a brick building with bright blue trim will be on your right. 

Go straight to the next intersection, but don't go through it. Stop at the crosswalk and look to your right. There is a yellow bike against a pole in front of a business with red trim. Touchdown is sitting in the basket on the back of the bike.  Turn so you are walking with traffic. There is a construction site behind and to your left. Ahead in the distance is a tall building with triangle shaped windows that form a diamond pattern. Go all the way to the next intersection.

Turn right so that there is a business with a green sign, white text, and a yellow line on your left. Walk down this block until you hit the next intersection.

Turn right at this intersection. You will now see a sign with a green circle and a line drawing of a logo on it on your right. Walk past this sign.

Before you get to the next intersection, look to your right. There will be a building with black walls and gold art deco trim on the ground floor. There is a bust of a person at the apex of the main entrance to this building. Touchdown is on that bust. You are on a one way road, go with the flow of traffic. At the next intersection make a left, you will have a green awning on the corner store to your right. Go straight to the next intersection and make another left. The corner store to your left will have black and white signing at the top of it, continue straight. Go past the first parking garage entrance on your right, and then go just past the second parking garage entrance on your right and stop. Turn to your right and you will see a black fence with a large blue and white sign and on your left you will see a black door. On the sidewalk to the right of the black door is a green pipe sticking out. Touchdown is on top of the green pipe.  You're starting out in an intersection.  Find the corner with the flower shop that has a very bright red awning.  Turn so that you'll be passing by the flower shop on your right side.  Go forward until you reach the next intersection, and turn right.  You'll now have a subway entrance and shop with green awnings on your right.  Go forward.  You'll pass some construction scaffolding on the right.  After the scaffolding you'll have buildings with lots of fire escapes on your right.  After passing the fire escape area, you'll have another small stretch of construction scaffolding on the right.  Stop when you're even with the last section of this scaffolding.  Turn to face the scaffolding, and just to the left of it you'll see a wooden door to a home.  The bear is on the doorknob of that wooden door. Turn around and go in the same direction as traffic on this one way street. Go left at the next intersection. Go left again at the next intersection you come to. You will be on a one way street lined with bike parking on the right side. You will also pass by some fancy globe lighting on pillars on your right. Keep walking. Ahead just before turning into the intersection, notice the restaurant on the right with the mood lighting outside. When you get to it, turn to face it, standing facing the first entrance you see. There are round white decorations painted on the brown awning above the  restaurant. Touchdown is sitting right in the middle of the circle farthest to the right, above the entrance door.  Face in the direction of traffic. You'll have green wooden construction walls on your left. Walk to the intersection and turn left.

Walk along the new street, keeping the construction site to your left. At the first intersection (it's a 3-way), turn left again. You have to do a bit of a shuffle, but you want to be on the right side of the road going with the flow of traffic.

Walk down to the final intersection. Turn right this time. You will only want to walk part way down this road. Keep an eye on the large truck with shiny silver sides on your left. Once you reach the blue sign in the middle of the truck, turn around and come back to the final intersection.

Once you come to the final intersection again, walk forward through it. As you are just coming to the other side, stop. There is a pedestrian signal light on your right. Touchdown is at the bottom of the rectangular yellow sign below the lights.
 Turn so that you're facing the same way that the cars are driving and you're facing the nearby intersection. Go forward to the intersection, then turn left. Go up to the next intersection and turn left again. Continue forward until you pass an open space on your right. Past the open space will be some yellow pillars. Touchdown is on top of the 4th yellow pillar, the one that's farthest away from the open space. Orient yourself so you are facing the same direction the cars are parked.  Walk down the row to the first intersection.   At the intersection, turn right.  There will be a very large brick building with tan arches above the windows on your right.  Walk down to the next intersection and turn right.  There is a red banner with white text hanging above a door on your left side.  Touchdown is in the middle of the red banner. Orient yourself so the fence is on your right. Turn right at the light. Go through the next light. Before the second light turn right slightly into parking for a long glass building. Go into the tunnel Stop when even with the first ramp in the sidewalk next to a window with a blue mat. Touchdown sits on the ripples in the center of this mat. Orient yourself so that you are moving with the flow of traffic on the wider street--as you leave the intersection, the long blue awning should be on your right, and the green scaffolding should be on your left. Move in this direction until the next intersection, and go right.

You should have a blue and white striped awning on your right. Move forward, passing green scaffolding on the left, until you reach an intersection. Step into the intersection and stop. In front of you is a black trash can. Touchdown is on top of the trash can. Face yourself so that the trees are in front of you and there is a stop sign on your right. Turn right and go down to the next intersection. Take a right and you will see a store with a black awning and a store with a red awning on your left. 
Go straight down the road. Go past the stop sign. At the next stop sign take a right. There will be a red dumpster on your left. Go straight to the stop sign and take a right. There will a reddish building to your right and a beige building to your left. On the beige building is a white flag with purple letters. Touchdown will be right under the flag on a brown mailbox in front of the building. 

 Orient yourself so that the green median is on your left.  Go into the intersection and turn right.  You will be on a narrow cobblestone street with vehicles parked on your right. Go to the stop sign and turn right. Go to the next stop light and turn right again. You'll have tall green fences on both sides of you. At the next light, turn right. You'll have a planted median to your left. Touchdown is sitting at the base of the fourth tree in the median. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  You should see scaffolding ahead on the right.  Turn left at the next intersection and you will see blue awnings on the left and green awnings on the right.
Head down to the next intersection and turn left.
Hanging from the building ahead on the right is a blue banner and a red banner past that.
Go forward just past the red dumpster on the left.
You should see a dark pole with a blue band on the right side of the road. Touchdown is on this blue band.

 Turn yourself so that the black metal fencing is to your right and the red awnings are to your left. Go straight down this street. When you come to the first traffic light, make a left turn. Again, when you come to the first traffic light, you are going to turn. Make a right turn. As soon as you turn, look to your right. There will be a red building with a wooden door that has a glass window. Touchdown is sitting in the glass window of that door.  Align yourself with traffic and take a left at the four way intersection in front of you. Walk down this street and pass a four way intersection. At the three way intersection there will be a large building to your right. Touchdown is on the far left statue at the top of the building. Follow traffic down the one way street through the first intersection you come to, and keep going all the way to the end of the next block, and go across the street, stopping slightly before passing the pedestrian crosswalk on that side and going on step to the right.

To your right and ahead should be a black painted building with red brick over it and orange doors.  In front of you should be a street light pole with an orange painted base that only goes up to the traffic lights.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the right traffic light.
 Orient yourself so that you're going with traffic and the cones are to your left.  Follow the road as it curves; go into the tunnel.  It's a bit buggy here, so watch.  You'll see where the mosaic walls meet smooth concrete, then you'll have concrete on both sides.  Keep going.  When it then jumps back again to show mosaic next to concrete, stop.  Look down.  There is a drain in the street just ahead of you.  Touchdown is sitting in the middle of this grate.   With your back to the nearest intersection, go ahead to the intersection in the distance and go right. There is a long green fence on the right of this street. Go ahead. Before the next big intersection, turn off down a smaller street on your right. A park with benches will be on your left. Turn and face the last big windows on the last building on the right of this short street. Touchdown is sitting on the very top of the blue and white sign on the window. In the middle. Turn so that the rental bikes are on your right.  Then take your first left.  Head towards the building with the blue stairs.  Stop in front of the first ladder.  The bear is on the bottom rung.   Turn yourself so that the white building with bright green accenting is to your left. Go down this road. Go through one intersection and at the second intersection make a right turn. Go to the first traffic light and make a right turn. On the right you will see a white and green awning. Turn to face that store so you can see the glass door. Touchdown is sitting at the bottom of that door.  Turn so the long empty row of bike racks is behind you on your left.  Go forward until you reach an intersection, and turn left.  
On this block you'll have orange and white construction barriers on your left.  Go to the end of this short block and turn left.  
Here you'll have closed security gates and a foot cart on your left side.  After that on your left is an orange awning.  Past the orange awning is a stone building with an arched doorway and then a square doorway with glass doors.  Then you'll pass a shop with a black awning.  Stop when you've passed that black awning.  In front of the next shop is a green pipe sticking out of the sidewalk near the building.  The bear is on this green pipe. Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Head to the nearest intersection.  Turn right.  Go through one intersection and then stop in the middle of the next one.  Look left.  There is a black cart with a little bit of purple sticking out,  The bear is on the purple. Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic. You need to continue on this street; first you will move forward and you'll automatically veer right. You'll need to turn left to get back to the straight path. Then continue on this street. Pass straight through 2 intersections. At the 3rd, turn left. Right away on your right is a black fire hydrant. Touchdown is on top of it. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic, Continue straight until your reach the tan high-rise building on the right, You should be a prominently graffitied building to the left of that, Click the middle of the purple graffiti on the white part of the building to find touchdown. Go with the flow of the traffic. There should be a food stand on the right and a white van in front of you. Go to the intersection and take a left. You should see scaffolding on the left and a white delivery truck on the right in front of you. Go to the next intersection and take a left. Now you ahve scaffolding on the right. Go to the next intersection and take a right. More scaffolding on the right. Go up to the FIRE BUS text and your touchdown is little hole in the U on BUS.  Orient yourself to face the intersection. Turn right at the intersection. After you turn right keep going straight. You will pass a park on your left. After the park ends the road splits into two. Follow the right side. You will see another street on your left and a park on your right. The touchdown is on the base of the trash can across the street on your left side.  From your starting point, turn around so that the purple brick wall is on your right, and you see a blue wall ahead and on your left.  

Walk forward, ignoring the side street on your left, and walk out into the middle of the large intersection.  

Move to the right at this intersection, toward a bright yellow umbrella with green lettering.  As soon as you take this step, you will see construction on your left.  Just keep moving forward, keeping the construction on your left.  Walk straight through the first intersection you come to (ignoring the side street on your right) and keep walking until you come to another intersection.  

Take a right at this intersection, so that you walk down a narrow road.  Look up, and you should see a building with a clock and black lettering on your left as you pass.  

Keep walking down this narrow street.  Pass a blue canopy and then an orange canopy on the right-hand sidewalk.  Continue walking and then stop in the middle of the next intersection you come to.  

Turn to your right in this intersection, you should see a green bike lane on the left, and some trash cans on the right.  Take one step forward onto this street. 
 Touchdown is sitting on top of the trashcan with the green lid. Turn so the closest intersection is behind you and you're facing in the direction of traffic. Walk down the street to the intersection and turn left.

On your left, you'll have a set of stairs going underground and two short light posts with half white/half green globes on top. Walk to the end of this block.

Turn left one more time. Now you'll have a green awning with white letters on the right corner. Walk a short distance, looking to your right.

A few store fronts before the intersection, there is a blue sign with red letters. On the left side is a rectangular image of food. Touchdown is on this picture.

 Turn to face toward the row of blue bicycles, then go forward to the end of that block.Now take a right, past the theater, go to the end of this block, and take a right. Squeeze past the first bit of construction, and then about halfway through the second bit--same block. On your right, you should see a mailbox with graffiti on it, and further right, two dumpsters with graffiti and a small red Eastern style gate. Touchdown is right in the center of the front of that gate, on top of it. Orient yourself so that you are moving the same way as traffic.  There will be a tree with a yellow sign on it to your right.  Move forward to the first intersection.  You will see a red and white striped awning on the right side of the intersection.  Turn right at this intersection.  Go down this street until you reach the first intersection.  When you get there you will see a red and brown striped awning on your right and a construction site on the left.  Turn right slightly to face the building with the brown and white striped awning.  There is an orange street sign to the right of the building.   Touchdown is in the middle of this sign.   Face in the general direction of the orange barrier cone.  There should be a white sign with an arrow near it and a large reddish building way behind it.  Go forward-left from here.  This should put you next to a construction light sign.  Go forward just a couple steps and turn left.

Now that we're in a reasonable location, go straight.  Follow this road (it winds a bit).

Keep an eye on the buildings to the right.  You'll get to a building with a bunch of white fire escapes.  Right past that is an orange/red building with green fire escapes.  Line yourself up with this building.  Touchdown is on top of the top green fire escape. Orient yourself so that there is a red storefront up ahead on your left.  Go to the intersection.  Turn left.  There will be a red bus lane to your right.  Go straight through the first stoplight; turn left at the second one.  There will be a maroon and white awning above a produce stand to your left.  Head down this street.  Pass the blue umbrellas on your right, and the blue doors on the left.  Then on your right will be building where the first floor is done in cement block with patterned openings.  Pass all these patterned sections, then stop.  On your right will be an awning with a blue front.  Touchdown is sitting on the right corner of this blue part, where the blue and white edges meet.   Turn so you'll be going with the flow of traffic and you're facing the intersection that's very close.  Go straight through that intersection right in front of you.  At the next intersection you come to, turn left. Go to the end of the block, until you're almost at the next intersection.  When you're standing just at the beginning edge of the crosswalk (crosswalk is visible in front of you), look to the right.  There are four newspaper dispenser boxes (two yellow and two red) at the edge of the sidewalk.  The bear is on top of the red one with the blue sign on it. Step over just a bit so you are in the center of the intersection where you begin, and then exit the intersection so that you will pass the red store awning on your left. On your right you will pass a brick building with a short black fence around it. Continue in this direction until you reach an intersection. Just before entering the intersection, there are 2 orange cylinders on your right. Touchdown is on top of the cylinder closest to the intersection. Face the street that has a blue mailbox on the right side. Go straight. You will see a fenced in play ground to the left. At the next corner where you can either go straight or left only, turn left onto that street. The playground should be on your left again as you turn. Go straight. You will pass a fenced in parking lot that is to the left. Keep going. You will see a large pile of black trash bags on your right. Go just a short way further and the first silver light pole you see that is on the right is where touchdown is. Not the smaller one that looks like it's hooked to the building but instead it's the one by the white van. Touchdown is way up on the actual light part of the pole. Align yourself with the black fencing on your left and the median on your right. Head up to the intersection, and take the straight option of the two rights. Make another right immediately after, and continue up the street in the direction you were headed, now in the opposite lane. There should be scaffolding on your right with two construction barrels under it.

Head in to the next intersection, and you should see two more barrels in front of the green wall. Touchdown is on the right barrel. Go in the direction that will put red brick buildings on both sides of the road, going with the flow of traffic. Go straight through the first intersection and at the second make a left. You will have a wall that is painted red on your right and a blue awning on your left. Go straight down and stop in the middle of the next intersection. Ahead to the right will be a fenced off grass lot and to the left will be a black trimmed store. In front of the black trimmed store are two short red poles with a fire hydrant between them. Touchdown is at the top of the farthest pole.  With the bridge to your left, GO WITH traffic.  GO LEFT under the bridge when the left corner has the call box and brown shipping containers. GO LEFT at the intersection as soon as you come out from under the bridge. 
STOP at the three way intersection. To your right should be some wood fencing, traffic barriers and construction barrels. ROTATE RIGHT.  In the distance are courts behind chain-linked fencing.  There's a steel pole in front of you, with three signs on it.  

FIND Touchdown in the center of the white square sign with the red circle on that pole. Turn so you are with traffic, there are potted shrubs to the left and an orange barrier to the right, continue down this one way street to the intersection and take a right, the sidewalk to your left has trees and shrubs planted all the way down, follow to the next intersection, you will take a right here. There will be a row of bikes to your left and a large building with scaffolding all the way up it ahead of you.  Go through the next intersection, at the next intersection, to your right, on the sidewalk are two trash cans, one in blue, and one in green, the bear is on the blue can First orient yourself so that you are facing where the green awning with construction barriers is on your right and a PARK sign for a parking garage is on your left a bit down the street. Walk straight.  Go through the intersection. You'll be halfway when you see a storefront on the right with bright red borders around the windows. Continue walking. Pass through the intersection.  As you approach the intersection, you'll see a couple of construction barrels across the street on the right. Touchdown will be directly in front of the most right barrel. Align yourself with the small street with construction. There should be orange fenced in areas down the street. At the next turn, take the right up. A few steps up, you should see an arrow up sign with a yield below it. Touchdown is on the yield. Face the intersection you are very close to and go straight through it. Once you get through it there is a large fenced courtyard area on the left side. Keep going. You will go through a stoplight that is for a crosswalk for pedestrians. When you reach a stoplight at an intersection for cars, make a left turn. There is scaffolding on your left side and some orange barriers up ahead on the left. When you are almost to the orange barriers, they are just in front of you, stop. Touchdown is on top of the first one in the middle.  Begin moving with the flow of traffic into the intersection and turn left. There will be some orange and white construction barriers on both sides of the road and you will go under a bridge. Continue straight for awhile until you reach an intersection. At the intersection, look at the corner on the left side of the road. There is a pole holding the street light and on this pole is a black and white sign with a bike on it. Touchdown is sitting on this sign in the middle of it.  Turn so that the tiger painted building is on the corner to your front left. The red and white store should be on the corner to your front right. Walk down the street between those two buildings. You should pass a small construction dumpster on your right on the way to the next intersection. Go into the middle of the intersection and face right. Step into the middle of the crosswalk you are now facing. Face left. You should see a blue mailbox with stickers on it. Touchdown is on top of the mailbox. Turn with the flow of cars and take your first right.  Then take the next right.  Continue forward, but stop in the crosswalk before you enter the next intersection.  Look left.  There is a rag on top of the barricade where it meets the green box.  The bear is on the rag.   Turn around so that a young man with a red backpack is in front of you, and walk forward, until you reach an intersection.  Veer slightly to your right as you enter the intersection, and then stop and turn to your right so that you see a brick-walled shop with green signs on the right side of the road.  Follow the black SUV down this road.  It will be a long straight walk, but if you see a blue and yellow trailer on your left, you are on the right track.  Keep going until you are approaching an intersection, and you see a black-and-silver fire hydrant on the right-hand sidewalk.  When you are right next to the hydrant, you should see Touchdown the Bear sitting on top of it. Going with the flow of traffic, go to the next intersection and turn left.  You'll have scaffolding on your right.  Go straight through the next intersection.  Up ahead a ways will be a small amount of scaffolding on your left.  Look ahead at the red dumpster with a blue tarp also on the left.  Touchdown is at the center of the round orange reflector (closest to you) on the back of the dumpster  Orient yourself so that the pedestrian walkway with the green awning is on your right and you are walking towards the red brick building with the white lower half. Walk through the intersection. You'll have a jewelry store on your right and a pub on your left. At the corner you'll see a storefront with red awnings on your right. Turn right. When you turn right, you'll see a yellow sign that says hardware on your right. Walk straight down this street. At the intersection turn right. You'll know you're facing the correct way if you see a diamond store on your right and a red cafe sign to your left. Walk down this street. Once you pass a large planter of shrubs on your right in front of a building, look left. You'll see a black strong front with square paned glass and a doorway. Touchdown will be right in front of the doorway. If you see the doorway with the white awning, you've gone just a bit too far. Turn so your facing with the flow of traffic, moving away from the intersection. Go up the block and make a left at the next intersection. You should see some green scaffolding on your right. Stop just before you are about to enter the crosswalk of the next intersection and look right. 

There is a green garbage can sitting next to the crosswalk and street signs. Touchdown is on top of the trashcan, covering the hole.  With the light blue building with the blue awning on your right, go forward until you can veer to the right, so that you'll be headed towards the basketball courts.  Now turn right so that the basketball courts are on your left.  Go all the way down to the first intersection, it will be a ways down.  There will be a fire hydrant on the left next to a yellow newspaper box.  Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant. Turn and go in the direction of traffic, keeping the center park strip between roads to your left. Notice a few yellow chairs ahead at the first intersection.  Go straight past the road to your right, stopping after you cross it. Turn and look at the yellow chairs. Touchdown is sitting underneath the chair furthest to the right.  Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Go forward until you are able to turn (sharply) right, and do so. Continue until the next 4-way intersection, and turn right. At the next 4-way intersection, turn right again. Soon on your right is a brick building (at the end of a row of orange cones). Touchdown is on that final orange cone. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic wit the yellow poles and silver rollup doors on your right.  Head forward and turn right when the road ends.
Turn right at the next intersection, going against traffic and you will have a large shiny glass building on your right.
Move forward a bit and when you see an opening on your left, Touchdown will be on the orange hydrant on the small medium  Turn and go in the same direction as the traffic. Turn left at intersection. At the next intersection go to the middle of it. Across the street on the right is a gray hyrant and touchdown is sitting on top.  Put the blue and yellow fencing on your right and face the intersection. Turn right. Move forward and take the second right turn you come to. Move forward. As you approach some orange and white road dividers, Touchdown is to the right of them, on the ground behind a white van. turn so you are following traffic, go through the intersection you are very close to and at the second intersection take a left 

there will be scaffolding on your left and a building with a blue sign with white and red in its logo
continue down this road and take a left at the first intersection

there will be trees with twinkling lights on your left,
at the next intersection take a right and immediately stop you are still in the intersection but that's good, you have to take the right turn or you won't be in the right spot 
in front of you there are lots of planters with ivy growing touchdown is sitting on top of the closest planter to you 
 Follow traffic and go right at the light. Go left at the next one, where you'll have a red brick building on the corner, with a white sign band with red dimensional letters.
Ignore the 3-way and go almost to the end of the block, stopping just before a set of three white doors on the last building on the right. 

Rotate left.  Touchdown is sitting on the face of the mustachioed plumber with the red hat, seen through the window of the store with the yellow awning. Keep the pharmacy on your right, leave this intersection, but turn right at the next.  The pharmacy will still be on your right, but a tan building on your left.    When this road ends, turn right.  Take the next right.  Stop when you reach the dumpster on the left with the blue top.  There is a green can on top of the trash near the middle.  The bear is on it.   Turn away from the closest intersection, placing the pink flag on the building ahead on your left side. Go straight through the next intersection. Approaching the next intersection, notice the colorful rectangles on the buildings ahead on the left. Go left. Two of those colorful blocks will now be on your right side. Go ahead. Halfway down the street, pass some construction on your right.  Immediately see the yellow diamond sign above small yellow square sign on your left. Touchdown is sitting right on top of it.  Orient yourself through following the flow of traffic with the food stand up to the left ahead of you. Continue forward moving past the entrance to the parking garage on the right and the theater on the left. Stop when you are just before the crosswalk of the next intersection. Turn to your left and you'll see a fire hydrant between two yellow poles. Touchdown is sitting at the base of the fire hydrant. With the corner shop having the black sign band with red, white and green dimensional letters on your left, go WITH traffic and RIGHT at the light, and to the end of the block.  To your left will be a completely black brick building with black awning and white text. ROTATE LEFT.  You should be looking up the sidewalk with the street to the right, and the black awning to your left, with the black entry canopy in front of you.

FIND Touchdown on the white light on the curved white arm. Turn so the barriers are to your left and fencing to your right. 

Go through the first intersection, but turn right at the next one further down. When you turn there is a short cement wall on your right and a line of orange barriers on your left that are in front of a short green fenced wall.

Go down to the next intersection. As you are in the middle of it, look to your right to find a red hydrant in front of a short brick wall with black metal fencing on top of it. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant.

 Stand so that the orange barriers are behind you, and ahead of you there is a small green sign above the road. Move in this direction, going under that green sign and overpass, then under a second longer tunnel. After the tunnel, turn right. There will be three large open garages on your right. Before the third, there are short yellow posts. Touchdown is on the left-most yellow post. Turn and follow the flow of traffic and go to the intersection.  Turn right.  When road ends, turn left.  Continue straight until you pass the construction on the left side.  On the right side just past the chain link fence there is a orange caution barrel. Bear on top. Orient yourself with traffic on the highway. Take the first exit. At the fork, stay to the right. Immediately after taking the right fork, look to the blue hospital sign in the middle of the fork. Touchdown is on the big H of the sign.  From your starting point, please turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  You should see lots of trash bags on the sidewalk to your left , and a row of yellow and gray bicycle docks on the sidewalk to your right.  Walk up this road until you come to an intersection.  Ignore any pedestrian walkways on your right.

When you come to the four-way road intersection, turn to your left.  You should be looking down a wide, one-way street.   On your right will be a shop with red letters, and on your left, a shop with a rainbow stripe over its windows. 

Walk up this road to the next intersection.  Stop here, and turn left.  You will now be walking down a narrow lane with parked cars on both sides.  There should be a payphone on your right and a fire hydrant (behind silver poles) on your left.  

Walk down this lane, and on your left you will soon see a shop with gray columns between the windows and a blue sign with yellow trim.  Walk past this shop, then look for a fire hydrant, two parked bicycles, and a discarded couch, all on the left.  Walk just past this couch, and stop before you pass another parked bicycle.  

This bike will be white and red, with a white seat.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the bike seat. Follow traffic to the light and go right, then right again at the next one.   Go almost to the end of the block. The store with a colorful mural will be on the right of you. To your left, a storefront with bright blue tables and black awnings.  

When you can see the door to your left and just ahead, face it. There's a red dot on the glass of the door. Touchdown is affixed to that red circle. GO WITH flow and GO LEFT at the light.  STOP when the black awning with white letters above a double glass door, with a smaller single wooden door in an alcove, is to your right. ROTATE RIGHT.  FIND Touchdown in the center of the white circle with golden shadow at the top of the awning. Find the building with the red face and keep it on your right going down the street.
Also you will pass a large collection of blue water jugs on the right.
Keep straight.
Stop just before entering the next intersection.  
Look back to your left and you will see a black and gray fire hydrant between two poles. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant.

 Go in the same direction as traffic.  There will be scaffolding on your right.  Move forward to the first intersection.  Turn right.  There will be a building made of mostly windows on your right.  Proceed to the next intersection.  Turn right again.  There will be a food stands with yellow and red striped umbrellas on your left.  Head down this street.  You will see flags on both sides of the street.  Pass all of these.  After you pass the final American flag on the right, you'll see a red awning on the left.  Pass this as well, then stop.  There is a tall, reddish-orange ladder in front of you.  Touchdown sitting at the base of this ladder.  Position yourself where there is a few umbrella on your left hand side and a ton of building with staircases on your right. Head in that direction passing the yellow flag that is hanging on your right. Eventually you will notice a traffic light up ahead. At the traffic light make a right turn. Up ahead is another traffic light in which it consists of three cross walk. One crosswalk where you are standing before crossing, the second should be the middle, and the third crosswalk is on the opposite side. Pass the first cross walk and when you reach the middle crosswalk make a right turn. You should be in a position where there is a trash bin on your right near the crosswalk under a pedestrian signal walk on your right hand side. The touchdown is sitting on top of the trash bin. Follow the flow of traffic and go straight through the first intersection.Continue forward until you are close to a bus across the street. The touchdown is on the center of the smiley face above the driver's window on the bus.  Orient yourself with the big, brown gate on your left, follow traffic and make a right at the second intersection, with the red awning on your right. 
Pass through two intersections and stop before you reach the third intersection, where you see the glass building with the two red letters on your left. 
Touchdown will be on the symbol in between those two letters. Put the tall building with different shades of brown on your right. Turn right at the first intersection. Move past the flatbed. On either side of you will be some buildings with stoops. Touchdown is sitting on the ;ast stoop on the right hand side before the next intersection. Orient yourself so that the produce stand is on your left.  Move forward to the first intersection.  Turn left at this intersection.  There will be a park on your right. Move forward until you see some maroon awnings on your left side.    Pass the first and second awning; stop before you reach the third.  Turn to your left.  You will see two white security cameras pointed in opposite directions above a doorwary.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the rightmost security camera. Go in the same direction as traffic.  Move forward to the first intersection.  Turn right.  You will large, stone-faced buildings on either side of you.  Head straight ahead to the intersection.  Turn right at this intersection (the intersection is a bit awkward-- you have to move past it in order to turn).  You will see some green scaffolding on your left and a brown stone-faced building on your right.  Move forward just a bit until you see the first escape of the brown stone building on your right.  Near the fire escape is a red and white sign on a pole.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the sign, in the middle of the top.  Turn and follow the flow of traffic.  Take your first left, then the next left.  There are 2 metal garage doors on the right.  Stop just after you pass them.  There is a picture of a genie lamp on the next building.  Rub the lamp the bear is there. Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Head to the nearest intersection.  Turn right, then take the next right.  There will be rental bikes on the right.  On the left there is a black iron fence with a pointed top.  Stop near the end of this.  There is a red fire hose hookup.  The bear is on that.   Go with traffic down the one way. Turn right at the intersection.  Green scaffolding will be on both sides of the street. Turn right again at the next intersection. Red hope is on the corner.  Keep straight at the next intersection. Construction work will be on the left. Stop just pass the second orange people lifter at the construction site on the left. Just behind the large drive down opening.  You will be next to an orange cone to your left that is at the base of the scaffolding. Touchdown is sitting on top of the orange cone. Orient yourself with the flow of traffic. Make a right at the first intersection, passing a long wall of graffiti. Make another right at the next intersection. Its a long block, look for a large collection of cardboard boxes to your left. Slow down here, move slightly forward to where you see a red dumpster on the right. Directly across from the dumpster is a light pole with graffiti at the bottom. Touchdown is at the base of this light pole.  Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic, and head to the nearest intersection.  Turn left.  Continue forward through one intersection, turn left at the next.  Face to the right and look for a window with white rain on it.   To the left of that is an ice cream cone painting on the wall.  The bear is on the ice cream. Turn so you are heading with the flow of traffic.  Take the second right.  Take the next right, and one small step  Look left.  There is a fire hydrant in front of the van.  The bear is on top. Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Take your first right, then take the next right.  Go stand in the middle of the green dumpster on the left.   Look away from the dumpster.  There is a pole between the vans, the bear is on top. Going with the flow of traffic straight through this first intersection. At the next intersection, turn left.  Go down to the next intersection.  Once you're in that intersection look to your right.  There's a wastebasket on the right hand corner where the blue awning is.  Touchdown is on the top of the wastebasket. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
You should see scaffolding ahead on the left.  Turn left at the intersection before it starts.  You will now have yellow and red umbrellas on a food cart to your left and scaffolding on your right.
Go straight through the next intersection and stop in the middle of the one that follows.  The intersection you will be at will have a stone wall on the left corner with windows/panels showing greenery and some silver fencing along the curb.
Touchdown is at the top of the center window/panel in the wall. Orient yourself so the bicycle rental rack is on your left and you are in the same direction .  Walk down to the end of the block and turn left at the intersection, you'll go forward, sideways to the left, and forward again.  Walk forward to the next intersection, doing the little jog right, forward to enter the intersection, and turn left.  Begin walking down the street, looking on your left for a small, single story white building with a bright red garage door and a human door the same color.  There is a large light centered above the garage door.  Touchdown is on the light. Turn so you are heading with the flow of traffic.  Take the first right.  Then take the next right.  Pass the building on your left and continue until you see a garage on the right that is slightly opened.  Stop in front of it.  There is an orange cone on the right side of the garage, the bear is on it. Without entering the intersection, go in the same direction as traffic. The building ahead on your left has large pillars and a red flag. At the next intersection, go left. At the next intersection you will see a large poster of a man in the window ahead on your left. Go left at this intersection.  Again, find a building with large pillars to your left. Go straight through the next intersection and stop in front of the big white sign covering the storefront ahead on your left. Facing it, see a gray post with a blue stripe on the sidewalk in front of you. Touchdown is on top of it.  Turn away from the intersection, and go under the bridge.  Take first left.  Continue on this road until you can turn left (The controls are tricky).  Go back under the bridge.  Turn left again.  Pass the grass area on your right, and stop like you are turning into the parking area.  There is a large red and white sign to the left of the parking.  There is also a small red one,  Click it.   Go with the flow of traffic into this intersection and turn left.  You'll see a subway station with red horizontal stripes to your right, go straight to the next intersection and turn left. There will be a lot of planters to your left.  At the next intersection, turn left.  Go most of the way down this block, when you pass all the scaffolding on your right, there will be a small red pipe attached to a dark one on the sidewalk  right after the scaffolding. Touchdown is sitting on top of the red pipe. Head down the road so that the plants in the median are on your left side. When you reach the first intersection, turn right. On your left is a bright blue awning and on the right side there is a small food cart. Go straight all the way to the first intersection. Turn right again. There will be scaffolding with a green cover to the left. Go straight one block. Turn right again. On the right is a wooden wall on the building. Go straight forward a short distance. You will see a stone looking wall on the right. Go just past that. You will see a doorway that has several steps going up to it. Touchdown is on the landing at the top in the middle.  Move with the flow of traffic and take a left at the first intersection. Cross through one more intersection and proceed toward the next one. Touchdown is sitting on top of a phone booth in front of a sandwich shop on the right, just before the next intersection. Orient yourself with traffic and proceed through the light and under the bridge. Turn left at the light after passing under the bridge. Turn left at the next light as well. You will be going against traffic. Stop in the middle of the next intersection. To the right, at the entrance to a near empty lot is a large yellow flower pot.. Touchdown is on top of the pot. In the direction of traffic, enter the upcoming intersection and go right. You should be on a single lane road with potted shrubs on the median to your left. Go left at the next intersection, onto a one way 2 lane street with fenced trees/gardens to your left. Go right at the next 2 intersections. There is a parking garage to your right and construction to your left. Nearing the end of the construction to you left, stop in front of the large garage door openings. There is a large white sign on the wall between them, with black letters Touchdown is in the center of that sign, covering a portion of the central letters. Turn toward the intersection that you are standing right in front of. Enter it and go left. There are red lanes on both sides of this road. Halfway down, you should see a blue store front with colorful letters and a bears head to your right. Nearing the intersection, stop just in front of the red building on your left. Turn to face it. On the bottom left of that red bldg, locate the 2 yellow buttons on a silver surface. Touchdown is sitting on the ground leaning against those buttons.  Orient yourself so that the arched doorways are on your right and scaffolding on your left.  Go straight to the first intersection and turn right.  At the next intersection, turn right again.  Go all the way down past a bunch of scaffolding. When you pass all the scaffolding on your right, there will be a tall green fence.  Just past that, there will be a set of chain link fence gates.  On the right gate, that is crookedly hanging there is a black and orange sign.  Touchdown is on that sign. Orient yourself so theres a fence on your left and buildings on your right. Go to the first intersection and make a left. Travel through the construction past the intersection until you see a yellow arrow. Make a left at the intersection after the arrow. right after that turn there is construction to your left and a grey building to your right. On the right there is a green grassy area with one large tree. the touchdown is located at the base of that tree,. Going against traffic, go through the next two lights and go right at the third, staying in the lane where you're going against traffic.  To your left will be a hedgerow and a building with a long green canvas entry canopy and on the right, hedgerows and black fencing.

Stop when you're almost past the bus shelter on the left, and can see a path angling off the sidewalk towards a door with a green awning.  Rotate left. 

Touchdown is sitting snug on and in the middle of the bench in the bus shelter. Turn so you're facing the intersection that's right near you, and then turn right at that intersection.  Go one short block to the next intersection and turn right again.  Now go one long block to the next intersection and make yet another right.  Keep an eye on the buildings on the left side.  About halfway down this block (it's a very short block and you can see the next intersection ahead) there is a building on your left with bright yellow paint on the first floor.  It's canary yellow.  The bear is in the middle of the door to this little yellow restaurant. Turn and face the direction that the traffic is going, with the line of bikes on your left and scaffolding on your right, follow the traffic and make a right when you reach the second intersection, where you see the black store front on your right. There will now be a line of potted plants on your left, stop when you reach the first blue umbrella on your left, Touchdown is sitting on top of the center of the umbrella. When you start you should be looking at a wall and two people sitting to your right. Turn left so that you are facing the street and a school bus is in front of you. You will see a traffic light ahead. Turn left at the traffic light. You should see a green building on your right. Keep going straight and at the next intersection make a right. You will see a lot of signs on your right with Chinese symbols. Go forward. At the second traffic light you come to, turn right. As soon as you turn right, look to your left. There will be a door with a woman who appears to be putting on lipstick. Touchdown is sitting on the top of her head.  Get situated so you are going the same direction as traffic. At the first intersection make sure you keep going down the same street you started on. There is a long dumpster on the street up ahead on the left side. Go to the next intersection. Make a right turn. Now you are heading up a narrow one way street the wrong way and against traffic.When you get facing the right way you will see a sign board on the left side close to the street that has yellow on it. There is also one close to the building with green. Go straight down this long block. As you go you will pass a stone building that has arched doorways and looks like a church on the right. Keep going. Before you get to the next intersection come to a stop.To your left and in front of you should be a building with a lot of red awnings on it and to the right in front of you is a grey building. There is a tree on the left side in front of the red awnings building. Touchdown is on the ground on the bush that is at the base of that tree.  Take the left on to the road with the green awning, and head down so the green awning is on your left. Head in to the intersection, and make your way to the street to your right. There should be a blue awning building in front of you to your left on this road. At the next intersection, make a right. Look for the fire hydrant on your left down this road about halfway. Touchdown is on the tip of the hydrant. Follow the flow of traffic to the next intersection.  Turn right, go to next intersection.  Turn right and stop.    Look back and right.  There is a black trash bag on the ground.  The bear is at the very top of it.   Orient yourself so you are facing the same direction the traffic is moving.  Go forward to the first intersection you reach and turn left.  Travel down this street, passing a large red neon sign on your left, continuing straight through the first intersection you come to.  At the next intersection, stop and look for a yellow and red railing surrounding an outdoor seating area across the street on the left.  Touchdown is on top of the end of the railing extending out from the building. Check your vicinity and position yourself where your facing the intersection. As you move forward a bit please make a left turn. Follow the road heading toward the next intersection. Make a left turn at this intersection and continue forward till you pass the building with the blue awning on your right hand side but position yourself in front of the tree on. You should notice 4 windows total but 3 of them with bars. If you look above you should notice a white air conditioner. The touchdown is sitting on top of the air conditioner. Go to the nearest intersection and turn left.  Turn left again at the next intersection.  Roadwork will be on your left. Look right for the last red brick building on the right before the next intersection.. Stop when your directly next to the ac unit with green security fence outside this building. You should be between the door and the trash cans in the back. Look the right by the trash cans for the yellow pole at the entrance. Touchdown is sitting on top of the yellow pole. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Turn right at the next intersection.  When you do you'll see a clock on a pole on your right.
Turn right at the next intersection.  You will see some construction on your right and flags up ahead.
Go forward until you're almost at the cement overhang.
Just before that is some writing on the wall with a large symbol just below it.
Touchdown is in the middle of that symbol. Align yourself so that the people on the yellow sign are on your right. Head up to the intersection with the flow of traffic to make a right. Pass through the first intersection with the green awning on your right and the blue striped LEDs, and stop just before the blue and white striped awning with the blue sign above. There should be a yellow newspaper box next to a phone booth in front of it. Touchdown is on the yellow box. Orient yourself so you are facing towards the water and the intersection. Move forward and take a right at the stop sign. There will be a large building on your right. Go straight until you reach the second set of stop lights. Go through the stop lights and look to your right. There should be a large bus with purple, pink and gray stripes on the side. Facing the bus, you'll see three large doors on the large building. The doors have circles on them. Touchdown is located in the middle of the circle on the left-most door. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, head down to the intersection and make a left, and keep left at the next turn. Follow this down to the next intersection, ignoring any right turn, and make a left. Shortly after, make another left at the next intersection. Three steps in, you should be between two vans, with a black box in the middle. Touchdown is on the graffiti on the black box. Turn so you are facing so that construction scaffolding is on your left and four flags are on your right and head down the street.  continue past a construction barrier on your left.  At first intersection, turn right.  Continue past blue construction scaffolding on your right.  On your left you will see a green fence for a subway station entrance.  Touchdown is sitting on the rail against a light post above the station identification. Turn and walk toward the overhead bridge in the distance. Go through the upcoming intersection, and underneath the bridge. Keep going straight. Go straight across the next intersection also.  Once across, you should see tall chain link fences on your left. Keep going straight. Watch for the green slide structure behind those fences, and stop before you get to it. You should be before the door into the playground. Turn to face the fence, and see 2 blue slides to the left, and a red door right in front of you. Just left of you, on the sidewalk, see a fire hydrant. Touchdown is sitting on top of it.  Step into the multi-lane road and orient yourself with traffic. Proceed forward. Turn left at the first intersection, just before some construction. Go straight down this narrow street. Stop when their is an entryway to a parking garage on your right. There is a sign on the sidewalk with the price of parking - $10.95. Touchdown is on the price. Orient yourself so that you are facing the water and the bridge. Go through the traffic light right in front of you and make a left turn. Now the bridge and water will be on your right. Continue to go straight down this road. When you come to the first traffic light, make a left at that intersection. There will be a silver chain link fence on your right. Slow down when you come up to the first traffic light. As you are in the middle of this intersection, look to your right and you will see a black fence and some swings behind the fence. Touchdown is sitting on the bottom corner of that fencing, right in front of the tree.  Position yourself so the building with tables and chairs outside is on your right. At the first traffic light turn right. Once you turn, there will be a red brick wall to your left. At the next intersection turn right again. There will be a large painted mural on the side of a building on your right. At the next intersection you come to, turn right again. 

Travel to the next intersection, but stop before going through it. Look to your right and you'll see a building with tables and chairs outside on the corner. There is a potted plant next to the door of this business. Touchdown is sitting on top of the planter.  Orient yourself in the direction of traffic. Take a right at the first intersection. Go straight until reaching a parking garage and four gray sets of doors on the right. Touchdown is in front of the last pair of doors. Turn so that you have a white building on your left and the green signs are on your right.  Go straight. Follow the flow of traffic to the intersection.  Go straight through the first part of the intersection, but turn left at the second part.  At the next intersection turn right, but then stop.  There is a blue bike with a backwards seat (1st bike).  Bear is on the seat. Align yourself so the foot cart with a yellow and blue umbrella to your left. Head straight through the intersection and make a left at the next. You'll make another left at the next intersection. You'll head down to almost the next intersection, and stop at the food cart when its directly on your left. There are two yellow ads at the bottom of the cart for juice. Touchdown is in the middle of the right ad. Go to the nearest intersection and turn right. The green bike lane will be on the left side of the street. 
Turn right at the next intersection. A blue building will be on the corner. 
Turn right at the intersection with the double stop signs. 
Look left until you see a cart with a blue handle, two large back wheels,outside a building with a green door. Touchdown is sitting on the blue handle of the cart.
 Orient yourself so that the playing field is on your left side. Move ahead and soon you will be at a 3-way intersection; turn right onto this narrow road. (Your left corner is now a white brick building with light pink awning). Move ahead to the next intersection and turn right.

Now move forward (to the right of the median), passing scaffolding on your right. At the first Y-shaped intersection, continue straight on your path. Then you will come to a 4-way intersection; stop before passing through it. To your left is a rectangular orange sign, below a white square sign and a black and white arrow. Touchdown is on the orange sign. Turn and go down the road so that the bridge is on your left and the building with a lot of windows is on your right.Turn left and go under the bridge.After going under the bridge you are going to stop and you will see a playground on your right. Right in front of the playground there is a fire hydrant and Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant Follow traffic into the light and go right, and then go straight through the next light.
You will pass a shop on the left with a blue and yellow awning and white letters.

Stop just before passing the three flags on flagpoles to your left and rotate left slightly and look up at the flags.  Touchdown is atop the pole of the American flag. Follow traffic to the light and go left.  Go left again at the next light. Follow along the curvy road. Stop immediately after the end of the building on the right with the blue first floor and red second. Rotate right. Touchdown is atop the light above the grey door. Go with the flow of traffic.  Heads up: we are just going around the block this time, to the other side of the block.  Go to the intersection and turn right.  You'll be going with the flow of traffic again and there will be scaffolding up ahead on your right.  Go to the next intersection and turn right again.  There will be scaffolding again on the right, this time with red, white and blue advertising on the top of it.  Head down this street, watching for when all the scaffolding on the right completely ends.  Stop after you pass the end of it.  You will still have scaffolding on you left.  Turn 90 degrees to your left.  There is an orange ladder propped up against the scaffolding.  Touchdown is sitting at the base of this ladder, on the sidewalk.   Turn so you're walking with the flow of traffic. Continue till the first intersection, then turn right. There will be a neon yellow sign high up on a light post on the right. Touchdown is on that neon yellow sign. Turn so you are going with the flow of traffic. Go to the intersection ahead. Take a right. You will see some lighted trees and red balls on your left. Go straight at the light ahead. At the next light go straight as well and stop just after you get through it. Touchdown is on top of the red sign to your right that is above the walk/don't walk streetlight.  Going with the flow of traffic, proceed to the first intersection and take a right.  Now, go to the next intersection and take another right.  Keep an eye out for the first green awning on your left.  Touchdown is hiding in the center of the design on that first green awning. Follow traffic and go left at the light. The scaffolding and orange netting will be to your left. When you reach the next light, go left.  

Stop when you're even with the fancy square black entryway on your right, above three bronze framed glass doors, and before the small grey awning on your left.

Ahead on the right side is a blue-banded parking meter. Touchdown is atop it. Hello. Please orient yourself with the flow of traffic. The tall white stone wall will be on your right side with yellow signs and black arrows. You will be starting with a three-way turn available, but please ignore it.

Go straight until the path splits. Enter the right lane by shifting to the right when this turn is possible. Before you enter the tunnel, there will be a blue sign to your left side. 

Continue straight through the long tunnel. As you exit, begin to watch the right side. The cement walls will get shorter and eventually end. Orange cones with white stripes will appear. 

Please slow down at the end of the wall near the brown metal gates to your right. After they have ended, stop when you are slightly beyond the first streetlight to your right side where the road splits. If you look to your left side, there will be a dark car parked near the orange construction barricades. You will be standing equal with it. 

To the left of the car, there are two white signs on a gray pole with red circles and black symbols. Touchdown will be on the top white sign in the center of the red circle. Starting out, there should be a colorful park inside of a black iron fence on your left. Go straight until you reach an intersection. Turn left. You should see a store with red letters next to a picture of a sandwich on your left. Go straight for a short distance until you come to another intersection. Turn left again. You should see a colorful looking mural on your left and two posters showing various fresh food items on your right. Go straight a very short distance and look to your left.  Just past the mural wall you should see a gray trash dumpster and a dark blue cooler sitting next to a shop door.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the blue cooler. Orient yourself so the playground is on your right. At the end of the block, turn right onto the main street (do not turn right onto the side street). There will be a supermarket on the right corner. Continue straight through one intersection, but use the left arrow to move onto the left side of the street so you are in the lane traveling against traffic. There will be apartment building courtyards on both sides of the street. Before the end of the block, there is a bus stop on the left side. Touchdown is on top of the bus sign in front of the bus stop.  FOLLOW traffic to the light and GO RIGHT, passing under the overpass. GO RIGHT again at the next light. GO THROUGH the light after you go back under the overpass. STOP when you're standing on the crosswalk at the other side. ROTATE RIGHT.

There should be a yellow bollard in front of you. FIND Touchdown atop it. Go with flow of traffic. Turn right at the first intersection. Turn right again at the next intersection. A green dumpster will be on the left. Look right. Stop at the start of the green scaffolding. There are two yellow poles under the scaffolding at the start. Touchdown is sitting on top of the first yellow pole. With scaffolding to your left, go straight. There is a red crostraight ahead to the right. Go through the first intersection. To the left is a drab building with slotted awnings. It has three blanked out windows. Touchdown is sitting in front of the doorway. Align yourself with the overpass on your right. Pass through a left then, and then pass through a right and a left after each other. Pay attention to behind the right green wall after the two turns a few steps down, and you should see some stacks of blue materials, maybe ladders or scaffolding, stacked on top of a crate behind the fence. Align yourself with that and you should see a red sign on your left with a yellow guardrail holding it on some scaffolding. Touchdown is on the red sign. Turn and go in the same direction as the traffic. Construction on the right. Turn right at the intersection. A couple of red awnings on the right. Turn right at the next intersection. Construction is on the right. Then there will be construction on the left. Before you get to the next intersection look to the right and you will see a green box and touchdown is sitting on top.  Orient yourself against the flow of traffic. Before you move, you'll see the red wrong way sign on the right side to ensure you're going the correct way. Move forward towards the bridge. At the fork immediately in front of you, keep to the left to avoid the ramp that is to the right. On your left there is a basketball court. Avoid turning left at the do not enter sign (keep to the right at this fork), but at the end of the street, make a right. Travel underneath the bridge/flyovers. You'll pass a vintage red truck with flames on the front end on your left. Keep left at the fork. There is a flyover immediately to your left and parked cars on your right. Just before the first intersection, there is a black SUV parked behind the jersey wall to your left, to the left of a public parking sign. Touchdown is on the red arrow on the sign.  Begin by orienting yourself to walk in the same direction as traffic. The playground will be on your right. Walk straight.  At the intersection turn left. You'll see a yellow newstand on the right. Keep walking straight down the street. A building with blue borders around the windows will be on the right. At the intersection, turn left. You'll see a bus stand on your right. Walk down this street. Further down the street, you'll see a bright pink flag on the right. Continue in this direction. When you come to the building with the small pillars out front, look across the street on the left. You'll see a food cart and Touchdown will be sitting in front of it. Go in the same direction as traffic, with a mural painted on a red wall ahead to your left. Go left at the intersection. Go straight through the next one, turning right at the one following. Cars will be diagonally parked on your left, and against the curb on your right. Ahead on your right is a bred brick building with red doors. Passing by the first red door, stand in front of the stairs and face them. Touchdown is at the top of the steps in the middle, leaning against the iron gate.  From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing an intersection, with a big brown box van straight ahead of you.  Go forward until you are in the middle of the intersection and then turn to your right so that a white van is on your left and a blue and white bus is on your right.  Go forward until you are in the middle of an intersection, and then turn to your right, so that you are facing a yellow taxi that is turning onto the single-lane road.  Go forward down this road.  Eventually, you will see a building on the right with a green awning over the door.  Touchdown the Bear is on top of this awning.  You may need to move closer to the door to see him. Turn around until you are facing with traffic, then go forward until you are in the intersection. There should be a building on your right with an orange sign--now go turn right. Now go straight ahead, past the next intersection, past construction on your right, past construction on your left. Shortly after that last construction, on your right will be a metal circle standing up on the ground with a line through it. Touchdown is in the center of that circle. If you reach the next intersection you have gone too far. With the red paneled building with some black security fencing to your left, and then the dark blue building, go forward to the light, and go right. Go right again at the second light, ignoring the one at the 3-way.  When you reach yet another light, go right, without passing the crosswalk.  Rotate slightly right to face directly at a silver trashcan with a green lid. Touchdown is center atop it over the slit. Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Move ahead to the overpass, and you'll be able to turn. Turn left, and soon you can turn left again (so you'll be going the opposite direction on the same street that you started on). Continue until you get to the next intersection. When you are almost through it, face right and there are two motorcycles. Touchdown is on the seat of the closest one. From the starting position, orient yourself so you are facing the same direction as traffic -- there will be storefronts on your left and a brick building with an iron fence on your right. Move down this street until you get to the first traffic light. At this first intersection take a left down the cobblestone street.

Travel down the street until you get to a traffic light. You'll see some orange construction barrels just before the intersection. Take a left at the intersection.

Travel in this direction until you reach another traffic light. Take another left at this light. You'll see a row of blue bikes on the right side of the road. Travel down the street past the yellow truck on your left. Just before you get to the traffic light, stop on the crosswalk and look to your right. You'll see 3 trashcans. Touchdown is sitting on the furthest left-hand trashcan that has the blue lid.
 following the traffic direction, heading to the intersection. you are at the right intersection if you see on your right there is a store with blue tent on top of their window and on your left there's for rent sign on the window. Turn left at this intersection. You will see a delivery truck on the left of the road and another truck with the back open on the right side. Pass both of them, till you reach the next intersection. On your left side there is a bank with red banner sign. The bank has a golden door frame with a clock on top of the door. The touch down is on the clock.  You are on a one way road, go with the flow of traffic. Go to the next intersection and make a right, on the right you will have a light colored building with black arches, continue straight ahead. At the next intersection, stop on the crosswalk closest to you before entering the intersection. Turn to your right and on the far corner is a trash can, a fire hydrant between two red poles and a blue mailbox. Touchdown is on the top of the fire hydrant.  Start by positioning yourself in such a way that you have a store with red letters of it's name to your right and then go forward. Walk to the nearest intersection and turn right, and then continue straight towards the yellow building. At the intersection turn right leaving the yellow building behind you and go forward. Keep going until you reach another intersection and then stop. Touchdown is sitting on top of the green trash can to your lef.t Turn so the lime green lettering is on the right side of the street ahead of you. Go straight here with traffic. At the first light go straight. Keep going and at the next light take a left. You will see several blue awnings on the left. Go straight. At the next light take a left and stop on the other side of the crosswalk. Touchdown is sitting at the end of the flagpole on the right side of the street. There is a burgundy flag hanging from it with a circle on it.  Turn yourself so that you are going against traffic on this one way road. Go straight. You should pass a building with a protruding black front with red and blue letters on it. Keep going straight. You will go through one intersection. At the second intersection you should see a building on the corner to your left decorated with what looks like a lot of blue, purple, and green lights. That building has as a corner window and in that corner window is an oval shape. Touchdown is sitting in the oval.  Turn so that the building with the green awning in to your left. There will be a traffic light shortly ahead of you. Make a right turn at the light. You should see a building front with red pillars to your left. On your right will be a gray stone building. Go forward and then turn so you are looking at the glass doors of this building. Touchdown is sitting on the handlebar of the left door.  Orient yourself so you are moving with traffic. Move ahead to the first intersection, where you will have a white awning on your right, and go straight through the intersection. Continue to the next intersection and turn left.

After turning, there will be scaffolding on your left, and some small trees to your right. Move ahead until you are almost at the next intersection, and stop before you reach it. On your right is an orange traffic cylinder. Touchdown is on top of that cylinder. Turn and go in the direction with the traffic. On your right is a covered bench with blue. And a playground back behind it. Turn right at the intersection. You will see a bridge up ahead. Turn left at intersection and stop.  Bridge will be on the right. Playground on the left.On the right you will see the traffic light and a black and white sign with an arrow. Touchdown is sitting on top of the sign.  Go with traffic.
Turn right at the first intersection.
Keep straight on this street.
At the next intersection, on the right, there is a walk/no walk sign, Currently saying no walk.
Touchdown is on that sign.

 You are on a one way road, go with the flow of traffic. At the next intersection make a left. You will have a dark green mailbox to your right. Continue for a short way and you will approach a crosswalk at a three way intersection with red octagon signs on both sides, stop just before reaching this crosswalk. Touchdown is in the center of the red octagon sign on the right.  Orient yourself so that you are moving with traffic. At the first intersection, turn right. You should have a gated area with trees behind it on your left, closely followed by a large brick building. Move in this direction until the next intersection, and turn right again. Continue down this street, passing the green scaffolding on your left. Continue until on your left is a small white doorway, slightly below ground level, with double black doors. Touchdown is in the middle of the doors. Position yourself facing the traffic light near you and keep on heading straight skipping this intersection until you arrive at a building with advertisement of desserts and there should be a food truck near it on your right. Pass the food truck and make a right turn at the traffic light. Keep on moving forward passing the building with the scaffolding on your left and a traffic light up ahead. Once you pass the traffic light you should notice a building on your left with golden flags. Pass the first golden flag but not the second and if you look around there should be a trash bin near the intersection on your right. The touchdown is sitting on top of the trash bin. Turn towards the flow of traffic.  You should have orange cones on your right.

Go to the next intersection, passing scaffolding on the left.  When you get there, turn right.  You should see a bus on the right and an orange/red awning.

Go through the first intersection.  At the second, turn right.

You'll be going against the flow of traffic, with a large blue building on your left.

Go forward, you should see some scaffolding on the right with a tall ladder against it.  Just past it is a staircase on the right.  Touchdown is on the blue and white sign in the door at the top of these stairs. There will be a store front on the corner on your left with a brown sign with white letters. On your right corner there is a building with glass windows and a word in yellow for the name. Come into the intersection and make a left.
When you get to the next intersection make a left. 
Now go straight. Just before you reach the intersection you will see a place with a purple sign on your left. Touchdown is between the letters t (at the end of the first word) and f (in the beginning of the second word). On your right side are buildings with blue awnings and there is a piece of scaffolding that starts directly across the street on the right from where you should be. position yourself so you are AGAINST the traffic direction. The small store entrance with red awning is on your left and a truck with fruit picture is on your right. Now go against with the traffic direction. Turn right at the first intersection. Pass through the first and second intersection. You will see a touring bus with red/tan color in front of you. Go straight and pay attention to your left. There will be a store that has colorful lights in a form of a circus tent top with a flag on the top. The touchdown is on that flag.  Heading to the intersection where the bus is turning. Once you are at the intersection, you will see on your left there is a green trash truck, turn left here following where the green truck is. Once you are on the right street you will see the store with red letter name on your right and a store with white letter name on your left. You will also be behind a white truck. Now follow the direction of the traffic to the next intersection. You know you are there if you see a store that has green tend and sign with white color writing on your left. Turn left at this intersection. Follow the traffic, about half way you will see a parking garage on your left. Continue heading that way. You will see a white van with red arrow and blue writing on it on your left, continue heading that way, you will see a blue car on your left and a black SUV in front of the blue car. Pass the SUV on your immediate left you will see a sign on the wall with blue/red / yellow color. it is above an open entrance. The touchdown is at the round yellow part of the sign From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  The green and red bridge should be directly behind you.  Walk forward and follow the road as it curves to the right.  

When you are given a choice, bear slightly to your left at the fork so that you can stay on the main, three-lane road.  As you move closer to the fork in the road, you will see a guardrail with a yellow section on its closest edge. Move closer to get a better view.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this yellow section of guardrail.  Align yourself so the no parking bays are on your right, and head up to the intersection to make a left. You'll make another left shortly after when you see scaffolding on both sides of the street ahead of you. When you get to the point where there is a green wall starting on your right, look for the first blue diamond on the wall. Touchdown is in the blue diamond. Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. There should be trees, other plants, and a line of parked cars to your right and a large median on your left.

2. Follow this road for a while, and take a left at the first intersection. Pass through the intersection immediately after that (the opposite side of the divided street that you were originally on). There should be a dark gray building on your left.

3. Take another left at the next intersection. A red awning and a food cart with a multicolored umbrella should be to your left, and a yellow awning should be to your right.

4. Keep an eye on the left for a red (with some black) building that has a black fence in front of it and a fenced-in grassy area to the right. Stop when you're directly in front of the building.

5. There should be two lamps above the door. Touchdown is in the middle of the right one (the one that's lit up).

Good luck! :) Align yourself with the black shuttered door storefront on your right and head in to the intersection to make a left. Head down to the next intersection where you should see a food truck on your right. Make a left at the intersection.

You'll head up to the next intersection, and make just a final left. In front of the black storefront on the corner, you'll see two payphone booths to the left of the red pole. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the two phone booths on the top. Face and step into the intersection right next to you.

Turn right down this one way road with white pillars on the right.

Walk all the way down until you're in the middle of the next intersection.

On the right is an orange awning with a black sign above it.  On this sign is a circle with a design in it.  Touchdown is on this design. Turn down the one way street with the black building on the corner with a red brick after it on your right and follow traffic. Go right at the end of the block: You'll pass a white building surrounded by red bricks and a very red fire escape above it on your right.

Stop when you reach the tan brick building on the corner of the block on your left. You'll be before the tree with three low forks on your left.  To your right, you'll see ahead of you, almost at the corner, a very colorful mural with a blue eye in the center.

Touchdown is dead center in the eye's iris. You are in the middle of an intersection, go in the direction that puts the red brick building with the red and white signage on the right and the grey building on the left. At the next intersection you will make a right and stop just past the crosswalk next to the first tree on the right. Turn to the right and you will see a fire hydrant between two poles. Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant.  Align yourself with the flow of traffic on this street. At the intersection, make a left, and then shortly after, make another left. 

Head all the way down this street until you're right before the intersection. You'll pass some construction barrels on your right, in front of a food truck.  To the left of the food truck is a hydrant between two poles. Touchdown is on the hydrant top. orient yourself so that the chain link fence is on your left and the brick building is on your right. go straight to the end of the block and take a right. up ahead you you should see a chain link fence on your right. keep going straight past the chain link fence. keep heading straight past the blue benches on your right. keep heading straight until just before the intersection. touchdown will be on top of the yellow box on your right. Align yourself so the blue bikes are on your right, and head up the street. You'll make a right at the three way intersection, and head straight through two left turns. Head in to the intersection, and ahead on your left should be a blue postal box next to a red newspaper box. Touchdown is on top of the blue post box. Follow traffic, there should be 4 different colored squares in the window on your right. Go left at the first intersection.  Short metal posts line the street on your left. Go left at the next intersection. On the second building on the left, it is green, see a storefront with a green clover on the sign. Directly facing it, Touchdown is in the center of the clover left of the name. Orient yourself so the brown brick buildings are on your left and white stone buildings are on your right. Follow the traffic straight. Make a left at the first intersection. About one block from here there will be another intersection make a left here also. As soon as you make this left there will be a white box truck on the left and two red vehicles parked on your right, On the right there is a set a three green dumpsters. the touchdown is located on the top of the yellow pole closest to the green dumpsters. Turn so you are following the flow of traffic and the shiny black building is on your right.  Follow the cars past the first intersection, there will be construction on both sides of you now.  Keep going to the next intersection and turn left.  You will still have green construction on your left and blue awnings on your right.  Follow traffic to the next intersection and turn left.  On your right will be green construction.  Travel down this road a short way, looking on your right for two flags over the green construction.  Touchdown is sitting on the ball on the end of the flag pole with the dark blue flag. Face the intersection ahead with the flow of traffic. Turn left at the intersection. Continue straight through one intersection. Turn left at the next intersection with no traffic light and no available right turn. You'll see a sign telling trucks to keep right on the right side. Continue straight until you reach an intersection with a traffic light and a yellow building up ahead on the left. As you enter the intersection, there is a green tunnel sign above a yellow merge sign straight ahead. Touchdown is on the symbol of the yellow merge sign.  Turn so the store with the closed security gate is on your right, and the building with the fancy carved arch doorway is on your left.  Go forward until you reach an intersection (it's long block), and turn right.  There will now be bushes in white round planters on your left and a row of trees on the right.  Go forward one short block to the next intersection, and turn right again.  On this block you have blue rental bikes on your left.  Move forward just a bit and you'll see an open plaza on your right.  Stop when you've just come even with the first part of the plaza, and you're between two empty white planters near the edge of the sidewalk.  The bear is on top of the first empty planter.    Face in the direction the parked cars are all facing, move forwards and turn left at the first intersection.  You will be on a major road; the first building on your left has large columns and a red door.  Go through the first intersection and at the second, turn left.  There will be a triangular open area with red chairs and tables on your right.  Move ahead a short distance to the next intersection and turn left again.  Go past the road construction on the left and then stop in the intersection with the narrow road on the left.  The building on the street corner ahead has a large number of plants outside including one near the door in a white pot.  Touchdown is sitting in front of the white pot. Orient yourself so you are moving with traffic. Move ahead to the first intersection (very close) and turn right. Now move to the next intersection and take another right. As you turn, you should now have a food truck with a red and yellow umbrella to your left. Now move ahead, past scaffolding to your right, and go to the first busy intersection. Ahead of you to the left you will see a large red fruit sign. Move straight through this intersection, and continue to the next. Stop just before entering it.
Ahead of you on the left, in the same area as the fruit sign at the previous intersection, is vertical red and black store sign. Touchdown is in the center of that sign. Look for the FexEx truck on the one way, Go in this direction.
Turn left at the first intersection.
Turn left at the first intersection again.
Go into the middle of the next intersection and stop.
There is a white truck with a Red Luck's logo on the door.
Touchdown is on the Red Luck's Logo


 Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the white building with the large American flag to your right. Continue forward to the next intersection and take a left. You should see some orange and some white construction barriers in the middle of the road in front of you. Continue forward ignoring the three-way intersection until you reach the next intersection. At the next intersection go straight and you will see several traffic cones to the right of you as well as some scaffolding with a green awning ahead to the left. Continue moving forward until you are just before the crosswalk at the next intersection, you should not be standing on the crosswalk. Turn to your right and you will see a yellow garbage bin. Touchdown is sitting at the base of the garbage bin. Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Head to the nearest intersection.  Turn left, then take the next left.  Head to the next intersection and stop in the middle.  Go right and stop.  Look for the building with the green neons.  The bear is on top of the trash can outside the shop. Orient yourself so you are facing the same direction as the large white truck located in the middle of the intersection. You will be going the wrong way down the road. Move straight ahead until you reach the next intersection. Take a left. Move forward. You will soon see a parking garage on your right. Move until you get to the entrance of the parking garage. On your right will be a gray car waiting to enter the garage. There is a small orange and black sign located on a post near the curb of the road. Touchdown is located in the middle of the orange rectangle on the sign. Begin so you're moving with the flow of traffic. A light-colored building with dark red awnings and vertical flags will be on your right. You can see the first intersection from here. Turn right when you get there. Now, there will be scaffolding and an orange and white construction barrier on your left. 

Go to the next intersection and turn right again. You'll pass some scaffolding on your right with some bikes chained to it on the sidewalk, and then you'll get to another intersection. Turn right one final time. 

The scaffolding is still on your right and there is a long red sign that extends the length of it. Move forward from the intersection just a little and you'll see a hanging plant with pink flowers up near the red sign. It's the only potted plant hanging on this block of scaffolding. Touchdown is sitting on the very top of the flowering plant.  Turn and follow the flow of traffic.  Take your first left.  Pass the parking lot on your left.  Stop halfway across the parked red truck on the right.  There is a small yellow circle on the bottom right (side/back) of this truck.  The bear is on it. Face so that the short black fence is on your left. There will be an Asian restaurant with a red and white sign on your right. Go straight.  At the first intersection take a right. There will be a red canopy with white chinese writing on your right. Go down to the stop sign and pass straight through the intersection. Go straight to the next intersection. You will see a pharmacy with an orange and white sign on your right. Take a right and go straight to the first stop sign you see. There will be a store with graffiti on the wall on your right. Right on the corner of the store with the graffiti is a wire trash can. Touchdown is sitting on top of the trashcan. move with traffic toward the intersection. At the intersection take a left, there will be a tree on the right with trash at its base and on your left a green fence. Continue straight, there will be black trash bins on your right, keep moving forward, you will be on a narrow road with chain link fencing on both sides and glass buildings in front of you. Just at the end of this road you will see a red sign, the bear is on the sign Go with the flow of traffic. You should see a bunch of different delivery trucks. Take a right at the intersection. You should see a business on the left that has a red thing hanging over and then just upwards is a big yellow building on the left. Go to the next intersection and take a right. You're going to come up by a big bus on your right and a delivery truck on your left. Follow the truck until you're almost to the intersection. Your touchdown is the middle of the K sign on the left.  Turn around so the fenced in brick building is on your right and the colorful shops are on your left.  Walk forward, continuing straight through the intersections you come to. You will see some traffic cones lining the road on your left and an overhead bridge straight ahead in the distance.   Keep walking. Pass a picture of a lobster on your left, and continue toward the bridge. Go through the intersection right before the bridge, and stop before crossing the crosswalk. Turn to face the road on your right, you should be standing in front of parked cars on the left of the road.  See the yellow box sign on the pole with a lit up hand on it.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the box sign. Go in the same direction as traffic, moving to the right lane when you proceed down the road. At the V, keep left. Stopping at the next intersection, there will be green awnings across the street in front of you. Go left at this intersection. You will be on a small street to the left of some trees and a red brick walk. Pass by the rainbow flags, and go straight through this next intersection. At the next intersection, you should see a rainbow ice cream sign across the street from you. Go left here, and keep to you left, keeping some orange umbrellas ahead on your left. Go straight through the next intersection and stop in the middle of the next one after that, it is very close.  You should see a red brick building to your left, with yellow partitions along the street. Go to the left of that building. The street you get on will have construction smoke stacks. Go past them. You will soon come to a three way intersection. Stop before entering it and look at the windows on the corner building ahead to your left. You will see 6 white square outlines. Touchdown is sitting in the square that is on the top left.  Follow traffic and go through the first two lights and go left at the third, making a u-turn.  Come back down the street and make a right at the light.  Bushes will be to your left and the rental bike rack to your right.

Watch for a hydrant between two pipes on your left; as soon as you see it, find Touchdown atop it. Turn until the gray corner store with the red awning is on your left. Walk forward into the intersection and turn left. The gray corner store should still be on your left. Walk forward down the street. You should pass a playground on your left. Keep going to the next intersection. You should pass a parking lot on your left on the way. When you get to the intersection turn left. There should scaffolding with red signs in front of you to the right. Walk forward until you reach the corner store with the red and blue signs to your left. Facing that store you should see a yellow box to your left. Touchdown is on top of the yellow box. turn around and align yourself so that the two green and blue pots are on your right. Head straight through the intersection and make a left when you get to the next turn. You should see a row of blue rental bikes to your right.

Take another left at the next turn. Head down this road until a couple steps before the next intersection. Touchdown is sitting on the left most smoke stack, that isn't very striped, at the top.
 Head the same direction as traffic. When you get to a 4 way intersection, turn left.  When you turn you will see a blue wall ahead. Go to the end of this block to the next intersection. Turn left. You are now on a road with several lanes going the same direction as traffic. Go a short distance until you see a solid orange barrier, then a white one then another orange one on the right side of the road. Touchdown is on the top of the white one in the middle. Turn and follow the flow of traffic.  Take your first right.  Then take the next right. Continue down this road a while.   There is a building with two black pillars on the left.  Pass that.  Parking lot on right, pass it.  Go to the middle of the orange and white barricades on the right.  There is a bike behind them, the bear is on the seat.   TTurn to your left so you are facing the same way the traffic is driving.  Youll have an image of a helicopter on a red sign on your left.  Follow that road to the next intersection.  Turn right when you get to the intersection.  With the stores with thin red awnings on your left, follow the road to the next intersection.  Turn right, the glass building with a green sign will be on your left.   Proceed down the road for a few feet and turn left to look at the glass building.  Below the large green square is a black fire hydrant between two short yellow poles.  Touchdown is on the top of the black hydrant. Go in the same direction as traffic.  Go to the first intersection and turn left.  There will be scaffolding on your right.  Go straight through one intersection.  When you reach the second intersection, stop just before you cross over the second crosswalk.  Visible on your right should be a red newspaper box fo the left of a green trashcan and a light pole.  Touchdown is sitting on the street at the base of this newspaper box. Turn so that you are going towards the traffic light that is closet to you.Turn right and there will be a green garbage can on you right and a yellow paper-box on your left.Go to the next street and turn around so that you are going back the way you started, Turn left at the first traffic light.Stop at the next light and on your left is a small island with a sign in the middle. Touchdown is sitting in front of the pole with the sign on it. Turn and go with flow of traffic. Go straight t thru intersection. Turn right at the next intersection. You will pass a fire hydrant on the left.  Then go pass 2 light poles on your left. Then on your left will be another fire hydrant.  Touchdown will be sitting on top. Go in the same direction as traffic.  There will be scaffolding on your right.  Move forward to the first intersection.  Turn left.  There will be a brick building with lots of fire escapes on your right. Go to the next intersection.  Turn left.  There will be lots of trees to your left as you move down the street.  Go to the next intersection.  Turn left again.  There will be cars parked on the left side of the road.  As you go down the street, watch for a yellow sign with black lettering on the right and piles of trash on the left.  Stop just after you pass the yellow sign. Turn 90 degrees to your left.  There is a pumpkin sitting on the first floor balcony of the brown block building.  Touchdown is sitting on top of that pumpkin.    Turn and go in the same direction as the traffic. Turn left at the next intersection.Glass buildings will be on both sides.  Go straight thru the next intersection and stop. You will see 2 gray mail boxes on the right and touchdown is sitting on top of the second one.  Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. A lot of construction should be on your left. Take a right at the intersection up ahead.

2. A small restaurant with green-and-white-striped awnings and outdoor seating should be to your right. Pass through the next intersection.

3. At the intersection after that, which has some construction going on in the middle of it, take a right. There should now be a fenced-in construction area that stretches down the street to your right.

4. Follow this road for a while. When you're getting near the next intersection, look for a tree with a garbage bag next to it on the left. Get close to it, but don't pass it up.

5. You should also be even with a brown door on the same side of the road. To the right of the door is a small window with a grate over it. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the windowsill.

Good luck! :) When you begin moving, you will be going with the flow of traffic. There will be green scaffolding on your right, as well as three orange construction cones on the ground. Go straight all the way to the first intersection. This is a long block. When you get to a fenced in area with a red dumpster and orange and white construction barrier on your left, you're a little over halfway there. 

When you arrive at the intersection, turn right. After you turn, a business with a long red awning will be on your right. Just before you get to the next intersection, there will be an orange newspaper stand next to a tree on your left side. Touchdown is sitting on top of that newspaper stand.  With the island to your left, go straight and turn right at the green sign. Go straight until you see a fire hydrant to your left. Touchdown is on the hydrant. From your starting point, please turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street, and you should see an intersection just in front of you.  Walk forward into the middle of this intersection, and take a right.  

You should now be walking down a two-way street with trees on your left, and red brick columns between windows on your right.  Walk straight down this road, and pass straight over the first pair of crosswalks you come to, ignoring the side-street on your right.  

On the other side you should see yellow stripes in the middle of the road on your left.  Just keep moving straight forward, following these yellow lines.  After the yellow lines, and a small median with some green plants in it, take a right at the intersection.  You should be walking down a narrow lane, with a pink awning on your left and some pink graffiti on your right.

Walk a short distance onto this street, and stop just after you pass an open garage door on the right.  If you look to the wall on your right, you should be standing right in front of another piece of pink graffiti.  On this same sidewalk, you should see a small A-frame chalkboard with blue and white lettering.  Touchdown is sitting right on top of this frame, in the middle of its top edge. Turn and go in same direction as traffic.Scaffolding with green boarding on the left. Turn right at intersection. Scaffolding and orange and white barriers on the left. Turn right at next intersection. Store with a orange stripe on the right and scaffolding up ahead on the left. Turn right at intersection. Scaffolding with red across top on the right. Stop when you are in front of the black awning that is in the scaffolding on the right. There is an empty flower pot on the left side of the awning. Touchdown is in the flower pot.  Turn so the grey-blue building is on your left and go to the end of the block, then go right. Go straight, passing through 3 lights.  

There should be a grand white building, with huge white pillars and a red door to your left.   Walk, until you can turn left and stare at the bush behind the black fencing.  

Touchdown is on the little light over the small red door to the right of that fenced in bush. Face the direction of traffic and go straight. Pass through the first intersection. There will be red building to your right and a deli on your left. Continue straight. There will be cars parked on both sides of the road. When you come to an intersection there will be a store with an orange awning on your left. Take a right. Go straight to the next intersection (it should only left you go left or right). Take a right. There will be a black railing to your left. Go straight until the railing stops at the intersection. On your left behind the railing is a bench and two concrete boxes. One box has grass coming out of it. Touchdown is on the grass.
 Follow the yellow cab down the one way, there is a red brick building on the corner with Chinese letters on it. Also you will see a truck with the back door open.
Turn left at the intersection.
Make sure to turn wide and go down the street with the green wall on the right and man riding a bike with a blue hoodie on.
stop at the first intersection.
While still in the intersection, you will see the back of a yellow suv cab.
On the right corner, there is a orange road cone. 
Touchdown is on top of the orange road cone.   Turn so you are heading with the flow of traffic.  Leave this intersection, then take the next left.  There are 2 American Flags on your left.  Stop when you are under them.  The bear is in the middle of the stars on the 2nd (Right) one. Turn so you are facing the flow of traffic. 
Go straight towards the light ahead. At this intersection, turn left. 
Go straight until you reach an intersection with a light. Turn left. 
Go straight, passing orange and white construction barriers on the left side of the road. 
Continue to go straight for awhile until you see an intersection up ahead. As you near this intersection but don't go into or up to it, look to the left side of the road for a pole with a blue sign hanging on it about half way up. You may need to look up to see the sign on the pole. The blue sign has a couple colored words and a white word. Touchdown is sitting on this sign, covering the words.  Turn so the playground is on your right, and go straight through the first intersection you come to.  
On this block the first thing on your left is an open plaza with pink and orange potted flowers.  Go to the end of this block and turn right at the intersection.
On this block you'll have a shop with a red and white striped awning on your left. After the striped awning is a shop with a plain red awning.  The next storefront on the left has a wooden-looking sign over a black awning.  Stop when you're even with this place (black awning with wood sign above it).  There is some sort of silver metal electrical box on the left side of the wooden sign, above the awning.  The bear is sitting on top of that box.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Move forward towards the road ahead that curves.  Head into it and you should find yourself surrounded by construction.  Move forward down the lane flanked by barriers, past a large blue billboard on the right.
Follow this down to the intersection and turn right.  There will be a steaming pipe on your right and a flag up ahead.  Turn right again at the next intersection and you should see a covered drive up ahead. Stop just before it and you will find Touchdown hiding on the banner hanging from the silver pole to your left. Orient yourself facing against traffic on the one way street. At the end of the block, turn left. Move into the next intersection and stop. Look to the right and below the academy entrance, there is an orange construction barrier on the sidewalk. Touchdown is on top of the right corner of the barrier. Orient yourself so you are facing the closest intersection.  Walk into the intersection and turn right.  Go down to the next intersection and turn right again.  Walk forward and cross straight through the next intersection.  After getting through the intersection, keep an eye on your right side.  There is a green awning that goes from a building's door out to the curb.  At the end of the awning is some white markings.  Touchdown is covering those white markings. Turn yourself so the green wall is on your right and fence on your left. Go to the corner and turn right. Now facing cars, with fencing on both sides, go to the next corner and go right. Cars are parked on the left on this street. Go to the next corner and turn right. Go to the next corner and turn right again. Yes, we just went around the block. Right about where you started, there is a banner on the building with the business name. Touchdown is on the first letter of the company name. Going with the flow of traffic, take a right turn at the first intersection. There subway station entrances on both sides of the road.  Go to the next intersection and take a right. There's a park to your left.  Go to the next intersection and take a right. Midway down this block will be an open garage bay on your right. Touchdown will be on the handles of the next set of glass double doors you see on your right after the garage bay. Turn until the orange and white street dividers are on your left and the orange screened fencing is on your right. Walk forward until you reach the next intersection. Turn right so that the large brownish gray building is on your left and the brick building is on your right. Walk until you reach middle of the next intersection. Once you are there turn right until the building with the small green and white circular signs is on your right. Walk forward until there is a building with wooden boards around two gray doors on your right. There should be yellow and blue tape on the doors. Touchdown is placed at the top of the doors in the middle where the two tape pieces come to a point. Face the flow of traffic, the intersection should be ahead of you. Go straight through the intersection. There will be a long black fence like barrier and bikes leaning against the fence on your left side, continue down that street. Past straight through the next intersection  At the next intersection turn left. There will be two green stands on the left side of the road, Go straight until you get to a diagonal interaction. To the left is an open walking area. There is a set of four pots in a row on the left side.  The touchdown is at the base of the green pole with a white square sign closes to the first potted plant. Turn yourself so you go with the flow of traffic and the grass and tree medium is on your left. Go past the next intersection with the orange canopy on your right, keep going in the same direction. Go straight through the next intersection, then at the next one, turn left. There will be a green fence/wall on your left when you turn. Go to next intersection that's right there and turn left again. Move toward the orange and white barriers on your left. There is a red sign on a pole to the right of you. Touchdown is at the base of the pole in front of it. Position yourself so the lime green dumpsters on your right. Go straight through the first intersection, and turn right at the second one, which follows shortly after. Once you turn, there is a median with a bike path on your left and yellow and green newspaper stands on your right.  

Go straight at the first light. When you get to the second one, move into the middle of the intersection and line yourself up with the green pole at the edge of the median on your right. You'll see there are a bunch of stickers on the pole. Look for the only yellow one, and that's where you'll find Touchdown.  Align yourself with the small road to your right. Follow this small road down to another small road and make a left. At the end of this road, make a right.

Go straight through three intersections, and at the third intersection, on your left there should be a brick building with pillars and red doors. In front of it is a black trash can, to the left of the hydrant and silver poles. Touchdown is sitting on the trash can. Turn so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Go to the first intersection and take a right.  You will see some scaffolding on your right side before the next intersection.  At the next intersection, turn right.  You will see some blue bikes on your left side and more scaffolding on your right.
at the end of the scaffolding, on your left hand side, you will see a big open garage type building. Stop when you are parallel to second column with yellow at the bottom, Touchdown is sitting at the base of the third column. You should be facing the same direction as the parked cars on the sides of the road. There will be a beige building to your right and a red brick building to your left. Go straight and you will come to a cross street on your right. Take a right and go straight. The next intersection will have a store with a yellow sign and red letters. Take a right and the store will now be on your left. Go straight down until you see a basketball court on your right. At the next intersection turn right. Go straight to the next intersection. There will be a store with a green sign and white letters on your right. Go to the center of this intersection and look at the store with a green sign on your right. In the center there is a red cylinder shaped sign with a white bowl and the R in the middle. Touchdown is in the center of this sign. Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic, and head straight through this intersection.  Then turn left at the next intersection.  Continue forward, and take your next left.  Head towards the purple flag.  The bear is on the torch on the flag.   Face the same direction as traffic, with the flags on your left and beige building on your right, go forward and make a right at the intersection. The store with the green and white logo is to your right. Go forward and stop when you reach the light post (on your left) with the yellow, blue and green sign that is in front of the black store front. Touchdown is in the center of that multi-colored sign. There is a large glass building down one of the streets, head toward it. You want to go past this building and continue straight until the next intersection. At this intersection, make a left. Continue to the next intersection, again making a left. On this street you only need to move forward about 3 steps. To your right should be a sign with multi colored lettering, right next to one with a picture of uncle sam. Touchdown is going to be on the middle letter of the multi colored sign.  On your right should be building with orange awning with white letters and small yellow boxes. On your left should be a red building with a white square on the wall. Continue into the intersection, now make a right. When you reach the next intersection make another right. Now travel straight to the next intersection. Now make a left, you will see a tall black fence on your right, on the left is a large with cages over the windows. Go straight till you reach the next intersection. Now make a left, after walking the short distance you will see a church on your right in front of the church is a pole with a sign that is white with red letters touchdown is sitting directly in front of the sign. Follow the flow of traffic down the curve, you'll enter a tunnel, and the step, or two steps, after exiting the tunnel, you should see a fire hydrant on your left. Touchdown is sitting on the hydrant. turn so that you are moving with the flow of traffic and head to the first intersection and take a right 
go straight through 3 intersections after the 3rd intersection you will see a bike chained to a post on the left move to just past this bike
the post that the bike is chained to has a black and white sign  at the top
touchdown is sitting in the middle of this sign 
 Turn yourself so you are going with the flow of traffic. Go up to the intersection and turn right. About halfway down the street you will pass some green and silver scaffolding on your left.  Keep going.  You will come to a busy intersection. Just before you enter the intersection, look to your left so you can see down the adjacent street.  You should see a green and white circular sigh sticking out from the corner of the building.  Touchdown is directly in the middle of that sign. Face the direction of traffic and go forward.  You'll pass some red awnings on your right.
When you get to the intersection, stop and turn right.   You should see a phone booth and an orange and a yellow box on the right.  Go forward.
At the next intersection, turn right.  You should see blue awnings on the left.
Go forward until you pass the dumpster on the right and stop.

On your right you should see a door with a gold octagon in the upper part.

Touchdown is on this gold shape.
 Align yourself so the white trucks are on your right. Follow this road out and make a right. Take a right when you reach the next intersection. A few steps up, you should see pillars with yellow paint on them. Touchdown is at the base of the pillar to the left of 3048 in the back. Put the park on your left side so you are facing the oddly shaped red building on your left.  Go forward to the intersection and turn right.  Go to the next intersection and turn left.  Walk down this street, keeping the gas station on your left.  At the next intersection turn left.  On your right, you'll see a row of bike rentals.  In front of those bikes is a phone booth.  Touchdown is on top of the phone booth. Turn to go in the same direction as traffic. Scaffolding will be on your right. You'll pass some umbrellas on the right. Turn left at intersection onto a cobblestone street. Turn left at the next intersection. You will see black and white flags on both sides. Tun left onto another cobblestone street.  A tan and red building to the right. After this building you will see a red and white sign with an arrow to your right. Touchdown is sitting on top of the sign.  Go WITH flow down one way street, with scaffolding on your right and orange k-walls on your left. Go RIGHT at the end of the block. Go RIGHT at the light. Make sure to stay with the flow of traffic on the right, and go RIGHT at the SECOND light. There will be a median on your left with trees and a fenced in playground on your right.

STOP when there's a tall grey wall with graffiti on your right and a bus shelter just past it. ROTATE RIGHT.   Look at the brick wall of the building behind the bus shelter, to the left of the grey wall. There is just one small window.

FIND Touchdown center of window inset in the building's brick wall. Stand so you are facing into the intersection that you are right next to, with the large building with walls of windows on your left. Move into the intersection and go straight through it, passing the black store with red awnings on your left as you leave the intersection. Continue on this street, passing between scaffolding on both sides of you. 

When you reach an intersection (just past a row of umbrellas to your left), turn left. Now a large window with green signs is to your right. Just past the green window portion, stop and face right, and you are directly facing the rotating door entrance to that building. A black fire hydrant is in front of the door. Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant. On your right should be a wall made of white brick and decorative brown blocks on top. Behind that wall is a white building with black railing. On your left is a silver chain link fence with an American flag behind it.
Now go straight into the intersection and make a right. Continue straight passing the building with lots of stairs was black fence in front of them and arch shaped brown doors. The building appears to made of stone. Once you get to the intersection make a right. Continue straight until you reach the next intersection which you will cross through. Once you have crossed through you will see a sign that is white with a black arrow it is in the middle of the street touchdown is sitting in front of the arrow on the sign. Follow the flow of traffic, with the blue awning on your right and make a left at the second intersection. Continue past the black storefront with the blue awning on your right and make your last left at the first intersection. Pass the gray storefront with the flower logo on your right and stop when you are in the middle of the first intersection. In front of you, on the right, will be a brown storefront with a flagpole. Touchdown is at the tiptop of the flagpole. Face with traffic on the ramp. Curve with the ramp around the corner. Just before the lanes split, stop and look at the signs above the two lanes. Touchdown is on the blue hospital sign between the two lanes. Turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  Walk forward and then stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to. Turn to your right, so that a shop with green and white signs is on your left.  Walk down this road and stop in the middle of the next intersection you come to.  Turn to your right so that you see a blue and yellow awning on the left side of the street.  Walk down this street.  Walk forward until you see Touchdown on the right, on top of a blue rectangular sign, between two blue awnings.  You may need to move closer before you can see him. Walk forward into the three lanes of oncoming traffic to the end of the block and turn right, down a one-way tree-lined street now with the flow of traffic.

At the end of the block, go right, continue to the end of the next block, and go right again.  You will see a very heavily treed park to your left; walk to just before the end of it, where a side street goes to the left ahead of you.

If you turn to your right, you should see on the sidewalk a square patch of dirt surrounded by foot high rounded black metal fencing.  

Touchdown sits in the very center of the patch of dirt.
 Turn so the green building with the green overhang is to your right, as well as a building with four long blue banners, and walk to the next intersection. Go left.

Walk to the next intersection (going past a building with a red overhang on your left) and turn to face left, without entering the intersection. You should be facing a building with a blue band and large white letters, followed by a roundish blue symbol with a gaping square hole in it.

The touchdown is directly in that empty square hole. From your starting point, please turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  Walk straight down this street, and keep going until you come to an intersection.  

Take a right at this intersection, so that you walk down a one-way street, in the same direction as traffic.  On your left should be a shop with a blue and yellow awning, and on your right should be a shop with large gray letters above its window.

Walk down this road and turn right at the next intersection you come to.  You should be facing down a narrow lane with a blue and yellow umbrella on the right.  Walk down this lane.  You should pass some more blue and yellow umbrellas on the left as you go.  

You will pass an open garage door and then a poster with a red bullseye logo on your right.  You are about 2/3 of the way there.  

Move forward to where you can see a large white truck inside of an open garage on the left.  Go forward again, and you will see a small storefront with green clover logos and several flags above its entrance.  Move just past this storefront, look to your right, and you should be standing in front of a shop with gold lettering above its windows. To the left of this shop is a small A-frame chalkboard on the sidewalk.  Touchdown is sitting right on top of this chalkboard frame. Turn so that you are looking into the intersection.  Go straight until you can turn right.  Then, Go straight until you can turn right.  Take this road to the next intersection.  As you are standing in the crosswalk, about to enter the intersection, look left.  There is a yellow box.  The bear is on top of the pole next to the box.   Turn so the park is on your right. Go to the light and take a left. Go one block and take another left. Stop beside the red van with a ladder on top parked on the right. Touchdown is sitting on top of the street sign in front of it with a circle on it.  Hello. You will be standing near an intersection. Please orient yourself so that you are facing the flow of traffic. There will be some green trashbags to your left side. Ahead on your right side, there will be green trashbags with a green trashcan. Ahead on your left side, there will be a red brick building with black accents.

Go straight through the four-way intersection. 

Continue straight until the next four-way intersection. Turn right.

Go straight to another intersection. As you enter it, a three-way option will be available. Please stop here a moment. Orient yourself to the right so that you are staring down a narrow path with orange barricades lining the right side. There is a green sign with white letters to your left. 

Go straight down this narrow, orange lined path. You will be passing underneath a bridge overpass. Once you exit, move forward just slightly while keeping your eyes on the right side. You will see a small square panel on the right stone wall. It is dark gray and shaped like a rectangle. 

There is a small white sign on this gray panel. Touchdown will be on the white sign at the top of the gray panel. Good luck! Follow the flow of traffic and turn right at the first intersection the road will have a painted red lane on the right side so follow that road just go past the next street and on your right hand side there is a traffic light and a garbage can touchdown is sitting on the ground in front of the light pole. Turn and face the yellow bus with a red pole and hydrant on your right.  Move forward until you can turn in the intersection.

Turn left so you are moving with the flow of traffic and move forward.  At the next intersection you should see a green awning on your right.  Turn right.

Move forward past some scaffolding on the right.

At the intersection, you should see barriers ahead on the left and scaffolding ahead on the right.  Turn right.

You'll see a white bus, move so you are next to it.

Above it you'll see a blue round sign with a vehicle on it.  Touchdown is on this sign. Turn so the scaffolding is to your right and follow traffic until you reach the intersection.

Go left, and go left again when you reach the following intersection.

You should see yellow overhangs, and a long dangling yellow banner with red symbols ahead of you on the right. Go just pass those and the red overhang on your right, and look to your left.  You'll see a round glass window in a building. 

Stand so you're facing directly towards that round glass window.

The touchdown is dead center in the middle of it.
 Face in the direction of the traffic and make a right at the first street light. Go straight and make a right at the first street light. Go straight and stop when you get to the scaffolding on the right. Touchdown is on the left, in the middle of the second floor balcony of the second window of the white building. turn around to align yourself with the smaller road. you should have the glass or mirror building on your left. Head past the silver poles on the hydrant and up the street.

Less than a dozen steps up, you should see ads with people doing yoga. Touchdown is on the knee of the guy closest to you in the picture, the one he is touching, in the orange shirt. Orient yourself in the direction of traffic. Go straight until reaching the intersection, then take a right toward a colored wall. Take a right at the next intersection with the arched building to the right. Go straight to the next intersection. Touchdown is in a planter to the right. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Go through the intersection ahead and you will be between scaffolding on both sides.
Towards the end of the scaffolding on the right, you will find a green awning on the left.  Stop at the middle of it next to a large black pole.
Just in front of that is a red and white sign on a small pole where Touchdown is hiding. Turn and go in the direction with traffic. Turn right at the intersection. A blue stripped awning is to your left. Continue straight thru the next traffic light And turn right at the next traffic light. A blue  awning is the the left.  When you get in the middle of the next intersection. Turn around and Touchdown is sitting on the middle of the first flower planter in middle of street.  Align yourself against the flow of traffic  You should see a fenced in court on your left with a mural, head this direction 

Head through a full intersection, and a small left turn, after going straight ignoring the small left turn, you should see a red brick building on your left with a blue awning at its storefront. You'll pass down two buildings, and start hitting red bricked apartments. Stop in the break with a pedestrian passageway between the first and second building on your right. You'll see a brown sign below a tree on the fence.Touchdown is covering the sign. Align yourself so that the red brick building is on your right, and on the left is some fenced in lot. Head up to the first intersection to make a left, then another left shortly after. This road should have some construction on it making the road smaller. Look for a yellow sign with red writing on it sticking out of a building half a dozen steps down or so. Touchdown is on the sun in this sign. Follow traffic to the light and go right.  At the end of that small block, go right. Ignore the street opposite the two side streets, one to the right and the next to the left, but go right at the next one, where you'll have a chain-link fence to your left and a red brick building with black fencing to your right.

Go right at the end of the block, when you're facing the large grey slab wall.

You should be facing a white metal cart against a street signpost.  Touchdown is sitting center and on top of the closed lid, not the one that's tilted.    Orient yourself so that the store with the peacock statue outside of it is on your right, then move forward to the intersection. Turn right at the intersection so that the building with the maroon colored awnings is still on your right. Move forward to the next intersection. It's kind of a long block but you'll know you're on the right path if there's a bright yellow shop front on your left and then near the intersection, you'll pass a building with blue lights in the window, also on your left. Head into the middle of the intersection. From where you are, on the left hand side, you'll see a bunch of planters kind on in the road.  Touchdown is on top of the leafy green bush in the first planter. Follow traffic to the light and go left.  Go left again at the next one. Go straight through the next one.  You should be standing in front of a red brick building on your left with very large windows with blue borders. To your right should be a fence with trees behind it exactly on the corner.  Face this fence. To the left of the fence is a green door, in brick, with straight concrete above it. Touchdown is on the round grey light above the door, at the corner of the fire escape. Turn so you are going with traffic. There will be a graffiti covered mailbox on your left. Head down this street straight.
At the light take a right. There will be a buisess with a burgundy awning on the corner to your left. Go one block and take another right at the light. There will be a navy blue awning jutting out of the building on your left. Head straight down this street about a block. Stop before you get to the orange construction dumpster with a blue tarp on top on the right side of the road. 
Touchdown is sitting on the seat of the blue bike parked on the right side of the street leaning against a sign pole. Turn so you are travelling with the flow of traffic for the side of the road your on. When you come to the first three way intersection, go straight.  At the second intersection, take a right.  Go until you reach the next intersection. Go straight through and then stop. You should nearly be standing in the crosswalk on the opposite side of the intersection that you crossed. Look to the left and you will see a yellow storefront with and old weathered look. 

Touchdown is on top of the street sign on the corner of the street in front of the yellow storefront.  Going with traffic flow, go to the corner and turn right.

Go through the next light and keep going. You will see a yellow leaved tree to your left. Just keep going straight. At the next corner, turn right. You will be facing traffic. 
Continue down this road until you are just at the next street, but not in the intersection. Turn to your left there is a red paper box on the sidewalk. Touchdown is on top of that red box. 
 Face the direction that the cars are traveling, there will be colorful window decals on your right side. Continue to the first intersection and turn left. There will be a white brick building up on the left-hand side, You will approach a wide intersection with the cross lanes being split with a median. Continue into the intersection, making the turn left so you are traveling down the right side of the street. The median being on your left and a place ground directly on the right side. On the right side of the road, there is a black hydrant that has a silver pole on both sides of the hydrant. The Touchdown is top of the black hydrant. Head into traffic, with the trees ahead to your left and the k-walls with steel fence sections to your right. Go right at the light: It's totally possible, but look forward to having fun figuring out, as it's a bit buggy.

Once you've ground your teeth down and have got it, the store with the red sign band and white letters will be on your right, and ahead on a building to your left will be a long yellow sign with black letters on a building, under huge white graffiti letters.

Stop when you're at the shop on the right with a white sign band and brown letters. Go past it and turn right, to look head on at a shop with a black awning. The brown wooden doorway to the right has a single light above it. Touchdown is atop the light. Put the blue and pink wall signs on your right, and step into the intersection and take a right. Pass the yellow awning with red writing on your left. At the next intersection, take another right. Now pass the building with window walls on your left. On your right is a parking lot of shopping sheds. 
Move ahead until the next intersection, and stop before entering it fully. Face left and there is a big pointed black umbrella canopy. Touchdown is on top of the canopy. Follow the flow of traffic, with the grassy fenced area on your left and make a right at the intersection. There should now be a black storefront on your right with a wooden door. Continue past this and make a right at the second intersection. There should now be a dirty yellow building with a black awning on your right. Go down this street and stop before reaching the first intersection. Look to your left, and you will see a blue open gate that leads to the entrance of the building. In front of that, there is a green pole with 2 white signs with red letters. Touchdown is on the bottom white sign.  Begin walking with the flow of traffic, so the fenced in paved area is on your left. You'll soon pass a variety of flags on your right. Keep going straight until you get to the first intersection, but stop before going through it. If  you're standing at the crosswalk, look to your right corner and you'll see a yellow newspaper stand next to a couple mailboxes. Touchdown is sitting right on top of that yellow stand.  Go with the flow of traffic, go straight through this stop sign.  At the next intersection, turn right.  There will be a red dumpster to your left, go straight to the next stop sign and turn right. On your left ahead will be some purplish blue banners, keep going.  You'll go straight through one intersection.  Go all the way to the next intersection and stop at the stop sign. On your right will be a orange newspaper dispenser next to some orange barricades.  Touchdown is on top of the newspaper dispenser. Step into the intersection, and turn right.  Stay straight until the intersection.  Turn right.  Go straight.  Turn right at the next intersection.  Pass the rental bikes on the right, continue forward.  Pass the red dumpster on the right (Has a blue tarp). There is a bike with a white helmet on it on the sidewalk.  Bear is on white helmet.  Turn so you are facing the same direction as traffic and start travelling forward.
At this first intersection you will see some construction barricades directly ahead and some to the left.
Turn left here
You now have orange and white barriers to your right, continue forward
Passing a bike rack of blue bikes on the left as you travel. 
On this corner there is a orange ventilation stack, turn left at this intersection.
Move straight ahead and at the next intersection, yes, another left turn. after turning pay attention to the right side of the street and notice a storefront with a dark brown awning and a air conditioner above the entrance door.
Touchdown is directly in the center of the air conditioner.  Turn so the evergreen tall bushes are on your right side. Go to the intersection and make a left. There will be yellow and white barricades on the right side of you and white and orange ones on the left. You'll go straight through the first intersection. When you reach the next intersection you will go straight again. On your right  is a long green awning that goes around the corner and 3 square planters on the corner sidewalk. Go just a bit further straight. Come to a stop when the black fire hydrant is right next to you on the right side. Face right. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant.  From your starting point, turn around so that the shop with the green awning is on your right.  Now start walking forward.  Pass a bit white truck that is unloading on your right, and then stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to.  

Turn to your left, and you should be facing down a narrow street that has buildings with blue awnings on both your left and your right.  Walk down this narrow street.

It's a long, straight walk.   Eventually you'll see some traffic lights up ahead.  Stop in the middle of that intersection. Turn to your left, so that you see a red-brick building with a blue door ahead and on your left.  Take a couple of steps toward the door, so that you can clearly see the sidewalk in front of it.

On the left hand sidewalk, before the blue door, is a small green newspaper box.  The bear is sitting right on top of that green box. Start by positioning yourself in such a way that the building with red stripe is to your right and a bus stop with blue behind to your left then go forward. Reach the intersection and turn right and keep walking. You should reach another intersection shortly after, when you get there turn right. As you keep going there should be scaffolding to your left, keep going straight. Reach the intersection and walk only past it and then stop. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of pedestrian crossing light to your left. With the green awnings on your left, move with the flow of traffic to the traffic light in front of you, and turn left. After you turn, there will be green scaffolding on your right and gray signs with red letters on your left. 

Go straight down this long block past the rental bikes on your right, and turn left at the intersection. Go to the next traffic light and stop at the crosswalk. On your right are two bikes against a pole and a green trash bin. Touchdown is right on top of the trash bin.  Face the intersection and turn left through it. Turn left at the next light as well. Completely pass a building on the left with ivy on its balconies. Stop in front of a blue awning on the right just after passing two large doorways of a loading dock. Touchdown is on the blue sign on the yellow pillar between these doors that is nearest the sidewalk. Turn so that the bus shelter is to your right and scaffolding to your left. Walk forward down this street. You will pass through one three way intersection - keep going. After the park on your left there will be another 3 way intersection. 

Turn right at this intersection. Walk down this road. You will come across another 3 way intersection. Keep going, but look to your right now. There will be a play structure in the distance. As you come to the end of the play area, there is a yellow sign with a male and female figure on it. Touchdown is on this sign. Follow the traffic, with the yellow store sign on your right, continue going straight and pass the two intersections. Right before you get to the third intersection, get on the left lane and make a right at that intersection (don't go to the street with the blue store sign. go to the one to the left of that). On your right, you will now have a brown building with a black store sign and white letters, go down that street and stop when you reach the green scaffolding on your right. Touchdown is on the center of the circular bus sign next to it. Face the direction of traffic and go straight. Go straight for a while. There will be a large yellow truck on  your left, Go past it and keep going straight past the intersection. When you get to the next intersection there will be a bus on your left and right. Touchdown is on the back of the bus on the left on the ventilation.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and you have scaffolding on both sides of you.  Go straight down this street and turn left at the first intersection.
This should be a narrow one way street and there should be orange and white cones on the left side.
Go for a while, past some scaffolding on the right, then more on the left.
As you near the intersection ahead, you'll see a green underground entrance on the right.  Near that is a fire hydrant with a red cap.  Touchdown is on the red cap. Align yourself so the fenced in court is on your left. Keep going straight through the right turn, and make a right at the intersection. you'll head down to the next intersection, and make another right. You should see a large black awning on your right with produce under it after this right. head in to the next intersection and look to your left across the street. You should see a black awning and sign with white letters. Above one of the letters is a red dot. Touchdown is on the red dot. Turn to face flow of traffic. Go forward and turn right at first red light. Then make another right turn at the next red light.  Go forward for several blocks. You will come to a red light. When you go thru the red light there will be a ladder on your left. Touchdown is on top on the ladder. Walk in the direction of traffic and pass the food cart on your right. Keep walking, and you will see another food cart right before the intersection. Make a left at that intersection. You will see a tall building on your left with big red letters on top of it on the side facing you. It will be right at the intersection where you need to turn. Turn left. You will see construction to your right. Walk past all of it and keep going past the bright yellow store also on your right. Soon you will see three traffic cones on your right. Touchdown is on the tip of the first one, closest to you.  turn so you are moving with the flow of traffic and take a right at the first intersection
thereis scaffolding on your left and on your right ahead of you a big yellow sign with black words
at the next intersection take another right this is the road with that big yellow sign

continue down about 3/4 of the way down this road stop right before a big red dumpster with graffiti all over it on your left just before this dumpster is a green light pole touchdown is sitting at the base of it
 Orient yourself with traffic, proceed, and turn right at the light. Turn right at the next light too. Pass scaffolding on the left and on the right. Pass a brick building on the left that has an american flag, red awning, and red flag with an H. Stop just before a ladder in the road. Touchdown is on top of the cone at the base of the ladder. Place the water to your left and go in this direction to the nearest intersection. Turn left at the intersection. Enter the next intersection and go right next to the line of sliver barriers. Stop when your looking at the row of blue bikes and there is a red and white sign next to the sliver barriers. Touchdown is sitting on the face of the red and white sign. Turn to face the intersection, and go straight through. Keep going straight, turning left at the first big intersection you come to. Stop almost on top of the crosswalk when approaching the next intersection. Turn to look to your right and see a blue mailbox near a gray box. Touchdown is right on top of the blue mailbox.  Align yourself with the flow of traffic. Make the first right, and continue up to the end of the road, then make another right. Ignore the left turn, and make the next right. Follow this down to the end of the road and stop in front of the trash cans on your left. There should be a white van in front of the trash cans, touchdown is on the hood. Position yourself so the purple bridge is on your left side.
The basketball court will be on your right.
Travel down this road for a bit, and make your first right.
Going forward you will pass some brick buildings and a graffiti mailbox. 
Cross over the first intersection.
Right after crossing the street you will see a line of metal poles sticking out of the ground on your left side.
The touchdown is the black base of the 9th pole.



 Follow traffic and pass the white building ahead on your right, and stop before the red brick building after it, where you can rotate to your right and face directly down the oncoming traffic street.  Look down on the ground in front of the plain concrete k-walls.  There's a square metal grate. Touchdown sits centered upon it. Turn yourself so that you are facing traffic. The building with the dark red awning should be on your right. Walk straight until right before the next intersection. 

On the left and right side you should see steel poles. The one of the left has two green street signs on it, and a black and white sign above it. Touchdown is at the bottom of this pole.  Follow traffic into the light, with the pink flowers to your right, and go left.  Go left again at the next light, and pass straight through the subsequent one.  White topped tends will magically appear to your left, while scaffolding will remain a constant on your right.  

Stop when you're even with the unpainted plywood before the last tent on the left.  Rotate right.  Touchdown is atop the blue newspaper kiosk. Position yourself where you notice a yellow sign with two characters walking on your left. Follow that road for a small bit till you arrive at traffic light. Make a left turn at this area and go forward a bit but don't pass the sign pole on your left with the leaning bicycle. The touchdown is sitting on the bicycle seat. Turn so you are headed in the same direction as traffic. Move forward until you reach the first intersection. Turn right. Once you turn there is a store on the left with a long green awning. Go straight until the very next intersection.Turn right again. Once you turn there is a mailbox on the right side that is covered in graffiti. Go straight until the next intersection. Turn right again.  You should be headed the same direction as traffic on a road that has a red painted lane. On the left side are 2 buildings that have the first floor painted a charcoal gray. Move foward only a little bit. Right past the grey storefronts on the left is a store with a long red sign over the windows and doors. Touchdown is on the ground in front of the very first door under the long red sign. You need to orient yourself so that you are on the left side of the street - moving in the opposite direction of the vehicles on your side of the street. Which means, you are going in the same direction as the vehicles on the other side of the street. Go straight through the first intersection (there is no option to turn down the first intersection). So, when you get to the second intersection, it will be the first time you will have the option to make a turn. Turn left at this intersection. After you make the left turn, you are still moving in the opposite direction of the vehicles. At the first intersection, make another left turn. You will be in an alley. At the end of the alley, turn right. When you get to the next intersection, start to make a left turn. On the right, you will then see a bicycle up against a street post. Touchdown the bear is sitting on that bicycle seat. Orient yourself with the flow of traffic. There will be green awnings on your left and a red food truck on the right. Go forward to the first intersection and turn right.

There will be a store with a bright blue awning on the left and yellow machinery in front of you in the road. Go straight to the next intersection and turn right.

There is now a church on the left with a bunch of green trees, grass and bushes. on the right there are stores with red awnings. Go straight.

There will be a big rig and a box truck on the left. Stop just past these. theres a parking garage here with 24 hour parking. The touchdown is located above the numbers on the parking banner. Stand so that you are facing into a street and the playground will be on your left. Move straight along this street for awhile. You'll come to orange and white traffic barriers and a tractor/construction machine. To the left of the tractor is a green pole with a red sign and white writing (below a white sign with black writing). Touchdown is on the red sign. Turn so the median is to your left. Go through the first intersection and turn right at the second.

Go down this road, to the end of the bluish building on the right with the light blue pillars. There is a yellow bus parked on the right side in front of the building and Touchdown is in the center of the red octagon sign on the bus.

 You'll be begin moving with the flow of traffic. A building with a long red sign will be on your left and a business with a bright yellow sign with red symbols will be on your right. You can see a traffic light in front of you. Turn right when you get there. 

After you turn, that same bright yellow and red sign will still be on your right and a median with trees will be on your left. 

At the next intersection there is green scaffolding on your right. Continue to go straight through this light. The road will take a slight veer to the right.

When you arrive at the next intersection, you'll see a business on your right with a bright blue sign and white letters. There are a couple bikes parked out front, too. You're going to turn right at this intersection, but it's a little tricky. Skip the first road (it's a one-way street and there's oncoming traffic, so you know that's not the right one), and turn on the second one, which is immediately after. 

After you turn, you'll see a business on your right with colorful pictures of produce and smoothies in the windows. Take a few more steps and you'll see a black and silver fire hydrant between two short silver poles on your right side. There's an orange traffic cone there, too. Touchdown is sitting on top of that fire hydrant. Begin moving in the direction of the cars. When you get to the first intersection, make a left turn. Proceed down this street and then make the second left. As you proceed down this street, keep your eye on the left side of the road. When you get immediately behind a large brown truck parked on the left side of the road, stop. Look all the way to the left. You will see a pile of garbage - a number of bags and cardboard boxes, all next to a green post. Touchdown the bear is sitting on the ground in front of the green street post. Hello. Please orient yourself so the gray building with the cat symbol is to your right side. To your left side, you will see a light stone building with thin rectangular windows. You will be facing the same direction as the parked vehicles. 

Go straight on this path. You will pass by some scaffolding with green awning to your left side. Keep going as you pass some construction barriers with stripes on your right side. 

When you reach the first four-way intersection, turn right.

There will be a black building to your left side. On the right side, you will see a white parked bus as well as some scaffolding up ahead. 

Go straight until you reach the next four-way intersection. Turn right but stop right after doing so.

Look to your left side on the corner near the intersection. There is a bright orange sign with black letters. Touchdown will be in the middle of this orange sign. Good luck! Align yourself away from the parked buses, and with the red and white buildings on your right, and the yield sign on your left. Follow the curve out and make a right. At the first turn, make a left, then another, making a u-turn. take the first left a few steps up, and take 4 more steps forward. On your left there should be a yellow top white bottom sign. Touchdown is on top of the man on the sign riding a bike. Follow traffic and go left at the light, and left again at the next one, and then go to the end of that block, stopping before crossing the crosswalk into the intersection.

Rotate left.  You should see three round white planters of different sizes and three olive mailboxes, all roughly the same size.  

Touchdown is sitting atop the only bush in a planter straight in front of you. Step into the intersection. You should see a building with a black awning across the street on the right. Turn left and go one block. Take another left.  Travel around 3/4 of the block you will pass a yellow brick building with light blue fire escape on the right when your half way there.  You will see a giant white building on the left with black barred windows and a black fire escape. At the border of the large white building, and the next brick building stop. You will see a bright blue trash/recycling container. Touchdown is on top of it.  Align yourself with the flow of traffic, and go straight through the first intersection. Make a right at the next intersection, and then another right at the end of the road.

Ignore the first left, and go shortly through the intersection. On your left, you should see a white elegant building with a black staircase and door. Touchdown is on the letter hold in the left door. Turn so that you're facing in the direction the cars are driving. Proceed down the street to the first intersection with traffic lights, then turn left. Go down a block to the next intersection with traffic lights, then turn left again. You will see a place with a red flag/banner hanging at the front on the left. At the far end of that place is a single door with a light on each side of it. Touchdown is sitting on the light to the right of the door. Orient yourself with parked traffic and head down the street. Pass a gap in the barricades to your right before turning left at the light. Drive to the next corner, admiring the billboard for a tasty beverage on the right. Carefully turn left at this intersection, avoiding the officer directing traffic. Pass by some more barricades and a gap in them. The street shifts slightly to the left before some traffic cylinders. Pass an orange awning between two blue awnings on the left, then stop after passing the green awning after them. Touchdown is on top of the mailbox outside the building with this green awning. Orient yourself so the really pink house is on your left.  Go to the intersection in the distance and turn right.  Continue straight through two intersections.  As you approach the third intersection, keep an eye out for a big brick building on the left that's on the corner.  Stop when you're next to it's  main doors right near the intersection.  Turn left to look at it and you'll see at the base of the stairs there are these little house shaped concrete blocks with circles in them.  Touchdown is covering the circle of the block on the right. Stand so that you have the off-white brick building with a flag on your left, and so that you are walking with the flow of traffic.  Walk straight, passing the flag building on your left. Continue straight; you will pass a green bus on your left. When you get to the intersection, turn right. On your right you will see a large X on a building, in between two signs of the same size. Touchdown is the center of the X. Align yourself to the white RV across the street is on your left. Take two steps forward and then make a right. At the next intersection, make another right. Shortly after the chance to make the second left turn, you should see a ladder on some scaffolding. Touchdown is on the cone at the bottom of the ladder. Begin traveling the correct way down this one-way street. A wood and brick building will be on your right. When you reach the intersection, you'll be turning left, but it's a little tricky. If you turn left too quickly in the intersection, you'll be going the wrong way down a one-way street that will take you off track. Wait until you're almost through the intersection to turn left to ensure you are on the proper side of the street. 

Follow this curved road to the next intersection and turn left. A small grassy area with trees will be on your left and stairs going down to the subway will be on your right after you turn. Go straight through this next intersection, but stop just after you pass it. You'll see another set of steps going down to the subway. At these steps is a picture of a face with black eye makeup and red lips. Touchdown is in the center of the eye on this picture.  Go with the flow of traffic straight through the first intersection. You'll have scaffolding on your right. On the blue dumpster ahead on your right, there is a light blue sign.  Touchdown is on the tree on the sign. Go in the same direction as traffic.  Move forward to the first intersection.  There will be a good cart with yellow and red umbrellas just ahead of you to the right.  Touchdown is sitting on the very top of the right umbrella.   Turn so you are in the same direction as the traffic, facing the intersection.  Go straight through this intersection and walk down to the next.  Turn right following the flow of traffic.  You'll know you're facing the right way when you see a large white billboard up ahead on your left with a purple heart on it.  Walk down to the next intersection.  Turn right, continuing to follow the flow of traffic.  Walk down this street, passing the dark green plywood awnings on scaffolding on your right.  Look for a black granite building with a gold arched door on your right.  Just past this building on the same side is a red awning with white words.  Touchdown is in the middle of all the words. turn so that you are moving with the flow of traffic and head to the first intersection take a right you will see some food carts on your left
at the next intersection  with the sunglasses vendor take another right
at the next intersection there is scaffolding on both sides ahead of you but take another right
with the scaffolding on your right continue to the next intersection take a right but then stop 
you are in a very busy intersection you should see a blue mailbox near all the people touchdown is sitting on top of it



 Turn so that you have the fountain on your left and the restaurant in green on your right. At the next intersection turn slight left into the street with the green recycling bin and phone booths on your left, and a corner with red pavers and benches on your right. Go down that street  until the next intersection, then turn right. Go down the block and turn right at the next intersection. You will see a red light camera on the right and right after that is a fire hydrant. Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant. Go in the same direction as traffic.  Turn left at the first intersection.  There will be a very bright pink digital billboard ahead on your right.  Go straight through the first intersection.  Turn right at the second one.  There will be a couple yellow signs on your left.  Go past these.  You'll then see the bottom of a bright red sign above and to your right.  Pass this as well and then stop.  Turn 90 degrees to your right and look up.  There's a blue circular sign with a white bus on it.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this sign.   You're going to go against the flow of the traffic. go down to the one way and take a right. You will be going through a narrow road with a bunch of trees. Go until you're almost at the end. Look right and you should see a black and silver fire hydrant. Your touchdown will be the top of it.  You're basically starting in an intersection.  Move to the center of the intersection, and turn yourself so the restaurant with the bright yellow awnings and sidewalk barriers is on your right side (you'll pass it on your right as you walk down the street).  Go down that street, with the yellow restaurant on your right, and go to the next intersection.  Turn right.  Look at the buildings on your right.  A short way down the block you'll come to a bar with a wood bench out front.  There is also a red velvet rope near the bench.  The bear is sitting right in the center of the bench. With the yellow awning to your right, go to the next intersection and take a right turn. You will have another yellow awning on your right.  At the next intersection, take a right turn.  Midway down the block there will be a blue panel van parked on your left.  Across the street on your right, there's a motorcycle parked.  Touchdown is on the headlight  of the motorcycle. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and black flags/banners hanging off the buildings on the left.
Head down this road and turn left at the next intersection.
Heading down this street there will be a red awning a small blue intersection right before the next intersection.  Turn left again and you will have some purple awnings going off to the right.
Heading down this road you will pass a dumpster covered with a blue tarp on your right and some scaffolding after that.
Keep going and you'll pass a green store and stop just past that next to some roll up doors trimmed in yellow.

Touchdown is hiding between the doors on the yellow trim sitting on the ground. Turn yourself so you are facing against traffic and you will see a large decoration of red Christmas type ornaments on your right and head down the street.  Continue straight past the ornaments.  You will pass trees decorated with lights on your right.  Go straight through next intersection.  You will see a large red banner on your left and several flags on your right. Go straight through intersection. Turn left at intersection where a large red and white sign appears on the left corner.  As you move down this street, you will see construction scaffolding on your left.  Continue past the scaffolding and past additional scaffolding on your right.  You will see some orange and white parking barriers on your left.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the last parking barrier you approach that has orange and white stripes on your left. Position yourself in which there is an orange blockade on your left. Head in that direction should put you at an intersection in which you want to make a left turn. Once you make a left turn. pass the stand with a yellow and red umbrella on your left. Continue forward passing the green and orange awning. Pass the scaffolding on your left and skip the intersection you come across too. Continue going straight and you should arrive at another intersection. This time make a left turn at this intersection. Continue forward but don't go pass the yellow green umbrella. You should be near it. The touchdown is on top of the umbrellla Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic, Go forward until you reach the first intersection and take a left, you should see a red and green shipping container to your left, Go forward until you reach the next intersection and take another left, Continue straight between the rows of parked cars, Go straight until you reach the intersection with the black truck parked on the right, Continue to go straight through the intersection, You'll see a row of buses on your right, when you are in line with the second bus STOP, Look to your left and you will see a red construction vehicle parked behind a fence, to the right of that is a pole with a white sign, click the middle of the white sign to find touchdown. Align yourself so that the blue bikes are on your left and behind you. Head down to the intersection to make a right.

At the next intersection, you'll make another right, You should have orange blockades and a dumpster to your right on this road. Head past the dumpster and stop. On the other side, you'll see a potted plant, next to a black sign with red lettering. Touchdown is on the red lettered sign. Go with traffic flow to the corner and turn left.
Go to the next corner that's right there in front of you a short ways and go left again.
When you turn there are barriers on the right and brick buildings, and a park with a court on the left.
Keep going past this park to the next corner and turn left. 
When you turn you will see a yellow and blue play set on the right. Touchdown is on top of the most left yellow peak of the playset. Face in the direction of traffic. Go down the street until you get to the intersection, where you will see  an orange building with red awning and red roof tiles above its windows to your right. Make a right turn here. Walk on over to the next intersection. Make another right. Pass a building with a green awning on your right. Pass a store on your right with two red, white, and blue striped banners on the sides of its window. Keep going until you pass the construction on your left. Just after it, you will see a dark orange building with a green window on the first floor, with vines running up and down it. Touchdown is in the center of the top right square of the green window.  Orient yourself so the business with the red trim and large red sign with white writing is on your right. At the first intersection that's just a few steps ahead, turn right. 

Walk for a while next to green scaffolding on your right and watch for an open garage door on your left. The frame around the garage door is gray and there is a yellow pole on either side of the door. Touchdown is sitting on top of the left pole, which should be the one closest to you as you travel down this road. Turn yourself until you see a large suspension bridge in front of you and start down the street.  Continue going straight as the road rises slightly as you go.  You will pass a large fenced in area that looks like tennis courts on your right.  You will pass a long green wall that will appear on your lower right.  Once you are past the wall you will see a white building that is beneath you on your right with a flat roof.  Touchdown is sitting on last corner of the building as you pass it. Face the large stone archway in the park across the street.  Move toward the arch until you're as close to it as you can get.  Turn right, and go down the street.  Continue straight through the first intersection, and continue down this road.  At the next intersection, cross straight across the intersection then stop.  Look to your right  You'll see a green fence around stairs that go underground.  On top of the fence are two large round lights that are painted green on the top half.  The touchdown is on the light that is closest to the intersection you just crossed. Follow traffic a few steps until you're standing on the white turn arrow painted on the street.  Touchdown is on the top of the fire hydrant to your right. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and you have a red octagon shaped sign in your face.
Head through the little 3-way intersection.
Go forward as the road bends slightly to the right and turn right at the intersection ahead.  You should have a stone building with teal doors to the left and a series of brown awnings on the right.
Move forward and go straight through the next intersection and just onto the other side of the next intersection.
The building to the left will have green textured walls, segmented by brick.
Directly to your right is a fire hydrant with a silver cap where Touchdown is hiding.
 The white bldg with glass is to your left and the brick bldg to your right. Go straight down this road, through the next 2 intersections. Once through both, you will see bike parking on your left. Standing in the middle of the upcoming 3 way intersection, stop. Turning to look down the road on your right, Touchdown is sitting on top of the round manhole cover in front of the crosswalk of that street.  Align yourself with the flow of traffic. Head down about halfway down the road, until you see a barber shop and a pub on your right. Touchdown is on the striped thing in front of the barber shop. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
You will have scaffolding on the right and more up ahead on the left.
Turn right at the next intersection and you will have barriers and scaffolding to the left.
Turn right at the next intersection and you will see a large overhang ahead that has a black topped marque and white under it for lettering.  Head down this road, past the orange marquees on the right and take a slight right into the crosswalk at the next intersection.
On your right you should see some red awnings on the second floor and a black and white sign below them with an circle design above some text.  Touchdown is on this circle design. Go against the flow of traffic with the skinny trees covered in white lights to your right. Go straight through the next TWO intersections. Make a left at the third intersection, you will again be going against the flow of traffic and there will be a building on the corner to your left that has a maroon awning and to your right there is a store front with large white lettering. Go past the green temporary construction awning to your left. On the left you will see a long vertical sign with red neon lettering, stop in front of this sign and turn to the left. You will see a tan building with a decorative arch that looks golden inside. To the left of this entrance you will see twin pipes coming out of the wall with red circles on both pipes. Touchdown is in the center of the red circle on your right. Align yourself AGAINST the flow of traffic, with the construction pylons on your right. Head up this street and make a left. You'll pass an intersection, ignore it and go a few steps forward. On your left will be a shuttered loading door with a silver van, and a silver suv in front of it. Touchdown is on the left headlight of the silver SUV. To clarify, pass the windowed shop, you should see the first shuttered door with these two cars in front, parked. Orient yourself so that you are going with the flow of traffic. Go straight.  You will pass some yellow and white barricades on your right.  At the stoplight, turn right.  You will still have yellow and white barricades to your right as you head down this street.  At the next stoplight, turn right again.  On your left, in the median, you will pass 2 trees and then a tall silver pole.  Touchdown is on the black and yellow stripe sticker on the pole. Begin by positioning yourself in such a way that the bridge is behind you then move forward. Pass the intersection and continue going straight. As you walk you should pass another intersection and have a play ground on your right. Keep walking straight. Reach third intersection and move only slightly forward. Touchdown is sitting on the yellow box next to the pedestrians crossing on your right. Turn so you are facing the same direction as the parked cars. Go down the street to the intersection. Take a right turn. Go down this street one block. Take a right at the intersection. You will see a yellow and off white construction barrier on the right side of the road. Follow this up the road. At the next intersection take another right. Stop just past the red dumpster on the left side of the street. On your right there is a circular sign with a green and white logo. Touchdown is just below that in the middle of the white star! Orient yourself so that the restaurant patio is to your left and the long bench and plants are to your right.  At this street ahead of your, turn right.  You'll have another bench and planters to your right and a parked panel van to your left.

Go straight through the traffic light. Keep going till you get to the stop sign and turn right.  At the next stop sign turn right again. 

You'll go all the way down to the end of this block.  Walk out past the crosswalk  Look to your left ahead, there will be a trashcan on your left beside a crosswalk and lamp pole (it's not on the corner that comes to a point, not the one with scaffolding) .  Touchdown is on top of the trashcan.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Go through the intersection immediately in front of you.
Go through the next 3-way intersection.
You'll see a row of potted plants on your right.
At the next intersection (go slow, it's easy to miss as it is ONLY a crosswalk that breaks the two sides of the street), go left.
The road should bend to the left if you're in the right place.  Go forward.
Go straight through the next intersection.  You should see a bunch of blue umbrellas on the right.
Past that you'll see a pile of trashbags on the right side of the road.  Go past them.

When you're next to a blue dumpster with a black trash can behind it, stop .  Touchdown is on the black trashcan. From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  There should be some scaffolding on your right and a pink awning on your left. 

Walk forward until you come to an intersection.  Take a left at this intersection and continue walking.  There should be a shop with a blue sign and a red swoosh logo on your right, and a red storefront with yellow lettering on your left.  Walk down this street and stop in the middle of the next intersection you come to. 

Turn left at this intersection, so that you see a hot dog cart with red umbrellas.  Walk forward, so that the cart is on your left as you pass.  
Keep walking, past a park on your right, until you see a long row of blue bicycles on your left.  

Before you reach the end of the row of bikes, look for a purple awning on the left with white lettering.  Touchdown is sitting on top of a small stack of cardboard boxes underneath that awning Go down the street with the building with the green awing that turns into black awing. Not the side where the awing are all green.
Turn right at the intersection. A blue building will be on your right.
Keep straight at the next intersection.
Turn right at the next intersection.Green scaffolding on your left.
Enter the next intersection and stop at white line of the next crosswalk.
On the left corner there is an orange and white road barrel. Touchdown is sitting on top of the road barrel.



 Go into the intersection.Turn left. If you are headed the correct direction you will see a yellow box next to a mailbox on the right side of the street. Go straight through the first intersection. You will reach a 3 way intersection next. Go straight through it also. You will reach another intersection where the road you are on curves a little as you cross it. Keep following the same road you have been on. Do not turn. When you are almost to the next intersection come to a stop. On the right side you will see a red box then a phone kiosk that has a lot of blue on it. There is a black trashcan just after that blue phone kiosk. Touchdown is on the trashcan. Orient yourself so you are facing the flow of traffic with a red statue to your left.  Walk down this street, going straight at the first intersection.  At the second intersection turn right.  Walk down to the next intersection and stop.  Look across the street and on the right side you'll see a tiny island separating a bike lane from traffic.  There are two white and orange poles on it and a sign that has two small yellow triangles on it.  Touchdown is on the top yellow triangle. You should see a tunnel in front of you and a set of subway stairs on your left. The subway stairs are directly in front of a building with a long red awning. You will go straight which actually sort of veers to the right of the tunnel, then head straight. Go through the first intersection and continue straight. Just past that intersection you will see a oval shaped fence on your left with a big tree inside of it. Touchdown is sitting on the ground against the tree facing the road you are on. Turn and walk in the same direction as traffic. Go left at the first intersection. Immediately after turning, see a bright green sign with a yellow duck on your right. Walk ahead. Go straight through the first intersection. Pass by a large lit up flag sign on your left. Go straight across the next intersection. Notice the red and white circular pattern and polka dot signs ahead on your right. Walk towards it.  Just before you reach it's intersection, there will be a white sign on the building to your left, with a woman's head wearing a red crown with people in it.  Stop just to the left of this sign and turn to face it. Touchdown is sitting right in the middle of her eyeball on your right, her left.  Turn to face with traffic, then go to the end of the block. Across the street on your right should be a building with red awnings. Now turn right, and go to the end of this block. Turn right, you should see a food cart. Go past the food cart, and a motorcycle parked on your right, before the black garbage pile, you should see a pair of blue trash bag on your right. Touchdown is on the edge of the street, right in front  of the blue bags. Orient yourself so the playground is on the left and the brick building on your right. Move straight through two intersections toward the bridge up ahead. Immediately after passing through the next intersection without a traffic light, just underneath the bridge, look to your right. There is a for sale sign in blue and white on a yellow fenced in area. Touchdown is on the first area code of the for sale sign. Position yourself so the park setting is on your left. Turn right at that first intersection just in front of you.After you turn, look to your left and you'll see a gray post with a blue stripe around the top and a blue sticker near the curb. Touchdown is sitting right on top of that pole.  Orient yourself so you are in the intersection and the green construction is on your left.  There is a green bike path on your left too.  Follow this road and turn right at the intersection ahead, you'll now have a large black square billboard and a white square billboard on your left over a red banner. Follow this road through the intersection and stop when you reach the next intersection.  Look to the right and there is a round black sign with a white outline sticking out from the building at the corner.  Touchdown is in the middle of that black sign. Going with the flow of traffic,  go to the next intersection and take a left. There will be a green awning on the left.   Go to the next intersection and take another left.  There will be grey building to your left with a red door.  Midway down this block will be  green dumpster with a blue tarp on it on your right.   After that you should see a red painted building followed by a brown one.  there's  a yellow bike leaning against their fence.  Touchdown is sitting on the seat of this bike. Turn so you're following traffic down the four lane road, with the silver fences and heavily treed park to your right. Proceed to the end of the block.

To your left you should see two orange and white construction barrels at the corner. The one on the right has an orange light on top.

Touchdown is impaled on the light on top of the orange and grey striped construction barrel. turn so that you are moving with the flow of traffic and head to the first intersection go through the intersection and take 3 steps it should give you a 3-way option take the left backwards one were doing an illegal U-turn  turn to face the reddish building with black windows with red and white words on it, and go straight past this building keep this building on your right it might get tricky but if after the turn its on your right we are good to go  
continue all the way into the next intersection and when it gives you the 4 way turn stop 
ahead of you on the right is a green light post and touchdown is sitting at the base  move with traffic down the street to the 1st intersection, Take a right, on a building before you, you will see an advertisement with a woman in a multiple red circles. Continue to the next intersection and take a right, On your immediate right is a vendor selling hats, a mannequin head is wearing a white hat, the bear is on the white hat.  Go with the flow of traffic around this curve.  When you get to the first stop light, turn left. There's a nice green space to your left. Go to the next intersection and turn left.  Midway down the road there will be an area along the right curb that's a no parking zone.  You'll see a red car parked then no cars until there's a white truck.  It's in front of building that has ornate details on it.  Touchdown is on top of the only fire hydrant on this empty curb. Stand so that you are walking with the flow of traffic. Move forward until you reach an intersection, and turn right. Move forward until you almost reach the next intersection. On your left is a bright green and white store. Touchdown is on the green sign nearest the intersection. Turn so that there is a bank on your left side and proceed down the road.At the second traffic light you come to make a left turn.On your right you will see a candy store Touchdown is trying to get in side the store so he is pulling the handle of the door Go straight past a mail truck to the left and take a right at the intersection with a small red sign to the right. Proceed straight past the next intersection and take a right at the intersection which has a yellow tree to the right. Proceed straight until just past a church with red doors to the left. Touchdown is in front of the rightmost pair of doors. Turn so the park is on your left and walk ahead. Stay straight past the upcoming 3 streets on the right. Take the first left hand turn onto a one way street. The park is still on your left. Ahead on your right, notice two small shrubs in round white planters. Just before entering the intersection, turn and look a the corner building on your right. There is a brown sign with two numbers on it. Touchdown is sitting directly in the middle of that sign, covering the numbers.  Turn so the small park is on your left. Take the close by left down the narrow street. There will be a brick building with a green awning on the right. Go straight. You will come to another intersection. Go straight here.  At the next intersection take a right. You will see several brick buildings on the right with green awnings. Go straight to the next intersection. Take a left here and stop. You will see several bikes parked on the sidewalk on the right. Touchdown is sitting on top of the yellow newspaper box beside the bikes. Turn around so that the advertisement of boots in the store window is on your left.  Walk ahead. Pass by a mural of lines on your right, and go right at the next intersection. Walk past a building with a blue and gold roof overhang on your left.  Go straight through the first intersection and turn right at the next one. There will be a red building on your right, with hats for sale in the window.  Turn and face it.  Find the small neon green sign to the left of the store just below a person's eye level.  Touchdown is sitting on the ground below the sign. Turn to go in the same direction as traffic. You will be at an intersection. You want to go straight thru. Go all the way to the end of this street and turn right at the intersection. Several red and white big signs above stores on the right. Turn right at next intersection and stop. Turn to your left and there is a green box on a pole. Touchdown is sitting on top of the box.  Orient yourself so that the orange construction equipment is parked to your left hand side.  Go to the next intersection and turn right.   There's a parking lot to your left and a playground after the red bricked buildings to your right.  Take the right at the fork in the road at the first parked school bus on your right.  Then at the light merge on to the road by going right.  As you approach the next light, look for the green awning on the left over the last door.  Touchdown is over the letters on the front of the awning. Go with the flow of traffic, and turn right at the first intersection.  Go to the next intersection and take another right, you'll see lots of yellow store signs on both sides of the road. Go to the next intersection and take another right.  You'll pass a parking garage on your right.  There will be a school bus parked on your right.  Touchdown is on the back bumper on the yellow orange sticker. Turn to face in the same direction as traffic. Walk down to the first intersection and turn right.

You are now on another one way road. There is a shop with an orange sign and white lettering on your right. Go to the next intersection and turn right again.

Again you are on a one-way road. This time there is a shop with fresh flowers outside. Go down this street, keeping an eye on the right side. Up ahead you'll see a dark red awning that juts out over the sidewalk from a residential building. Touchdown is sitting on front of the awning that faces the street - above the white writing. Hello. Please orient yourself facing against the flow of traffic. There will be a yellow sign with black images on it to your right. You will see a red brick building with black accents and glass windows to your left.

Head straight until you reach the first intersection. There will be a black building to your right. You will see a white brick building with dark awnings that have white and red letters to your left.

Turn left here. Once you have turned, go straight on this long path while keeping an eye on the left side. You will see two red vehicles up ahead on your left side. Please stop when you are flush and equal with first red vehicle. In between the two vehicles, you will see three light gray trashcans with black bags. 

Touchdown will be on top of the middle gray trashcan near the black metal gate. Good luck! First orient yourself so that you are going the same way as traffic. If you see a couple of American flags hanging on your left, you're good to go. Walk forward. At the intersection, turn right. There will be a vacant building with paper on the windows to your right. Walk down this street. You'll pass a building with purple banners on your right and there will be a book store ahead on your left. A little over halfway down the street, you'll see a green building on your left and a gym directly across from it on your right. Keep walking. At the corner, you'll see a gray building with red lettering to your right and storefronts with green awnings on your left.  Just before the red signage in the windows start on the gray building, you'll see a 24 HOURS sign in the window. Touchdown will be sitting directly under this sign. Go straight with the schoolbus to your left. Go straight until you hit a major intersection with scaffolding ahead. Take a right. Take another right at a drab brick building. There is an arched doorway to your left, then a red doorway. Touchdown is in the grate above the doorway. Go with traffic keeping the tents to your left and scaffolding to your right. Go straight at the first intersection. Turn left at the next intersection. Turn left again at the next intersection. Go straight at the next intersection. Look right, and stop directly next to the start of the green scaffolding. There is white with yellow lines construction barrier at the start of the green scaffolding. Touchdown is sitting where the missing light would be on the barrier. Turn yourself so that you are facing traffic. You should see a building with a green awning at the end of the street directly in front of you. Walk to this intersection. Turn left here.

Walk straight until you reach the next intersection. You should see a building with a green awning across the street to the left. Turn left here so that building is now on your right. Walk straight to the next intersection. 

At this intersection you should see a white building across the street to your left. Turn  left here and walk toward the next intersection. Right before the intersection you will see a side street to your left. Turn left down this street.

Walk a bit and you will see on the left a series of beige buildings. When you are in the right location, four shrubs should be sitting in containers. Right after on the left side there is a red sign attached to a pole, with a bicycle on the bottom. Touchdown is at the bottom of this pole next to the bicycle. Position yourself so you're facing the intersection. On your left is a bike against a pole and on your right is a fenced in area. Step into that intersection and turn left.

Go to the next intersection, and turn left again. After you turn, there will be a red awning on your left and an orange one on your right. Just a short distance ahead  is another intersection. Turn left one final time. Now, there's a building with large red pillars on your left. 

Just ahead is a traffic light. Move forward and you'll see a bench on the right, just past the corner. Touchdown is sitting right on the edge of the bench closest to you.  Turn so the traffic light is right in front of you. Go straight at the light. Go one block and take a right. Go another block and take another right. There will be construction on both sides of this street. Look for the building down the street about half way under construction. There is a green banner with white lettering on the green plywood. Touchdown is in the center point of this banner.  Turn to go with traffic flow to the next corner and turn right.
Go to the next corner and turn right again. Follow this road down past scaffolding on your right, then past a green construction wall with barriers to your left. Orange barriers will also be on your right a short bit. Keep going and you will see more scaffolding on your right, go just past the scaffolding a bit. You will see more scaffolding up on the left a ways ahead, but don't go that far.
On the right is a store with large gold address numbers. Touchdown is on top of the center number.
 Orient yourself against traffic and proceed, turning left at the first intersection. Go through the first two intersections before turning left at the third. Pass the subway stations and stop when you are between two stores that each have a pair of white diamonds on their signs. The furthest store has a black hydrant out front that Touchdown sits on top of. Orient yourself with traffic and go straight through the tunnel. Once in the tunnel, use the arrow to switch lanes. Turn around and head out of the tunnel against traffic. You'll curve with the road some, and then when given the opportunity at the four-way intersection, turn left to head against traffic. At the next intersection, turn left. There will be two tour buses with red writing on your right. Move forward a couple paces to pass the first two tour buses. In between the first two buses and another bus, there is an orange construction cone in front of a black fire hydrant. Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant.  Get turned so the intersection is behind you and the 2 green mailboxes are on your left. Go straight just about to the end of this long block. You will pass some arched red doors on the left as you go. On the right there is a part of the building that comes out further on the sidewalk. Stop right before the crosswalk and look to the right at the last corner of that building that juts out. There is an iron railing going up a ramp to it. Touchdown is sitting on that railing right up against the building.  On your right are some food stands. On your left is a building brownish in color with some arched windows and a fire escape that runs above several storefronts. In front of you to your left across the street is a white building with a giant clock on top. Head straight  into the intersection, now make a right. Continue straight into the next intersection, on your right you will see orange box shaped snow fence with a sign that is orange with a black arrow. Touchdown is sitting in front of the arrow. Take one step into oncoming traffic.  To your left is a blue mailbox. Touchdown is atop it. You are standing near an intersection.
Move forward through the intersection.

Proceed to the next intersection.
Turn left at the intersection.

Travel a short distance forward, looking to your left.
Notice 5 orange and white round traffic markers on the road ahead.
When you are as close to the fifth and final round traffic marker, stop.

If you pass all five, you have traveled too far and must go back.

The bear is sitting on top of the yellowish reflector on top of the round white and orange traffic marker you are closest to.
 Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Move forward and turn left at the intersection.  You will see multilevel scaffolding ahead on your left.
Go forward through the first half of the intersection to the fair side where there is a large black wrap-around awning on the left and turn left.
When you start moving forward on this street, the median on your left will be planted with trees and a black building on your right, followed by a brick building.  Up ahead on your right will be a red object mounted onto a pole next to the scaffolding.  Stop when you're next to the pole and Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant next to it. Orient yourself with traffic and proceed forward, turning right at the first intersection. Turn right at the next intersection also. Make your third right turn at the next intersection. Pass the building on your right with multiple flags. Stop when you are next to a small tree tied to two supports on your right. Look to your left for a black door with gold handle up a few steps. Touchdown is on the handle. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Turn left at the intersection right in front of you.  You will see a long row of short metal posts on the left.
Head forward, past the yellow painted building on the right.
You should see scaffolding ahead on the right.
Stop in the middle of the next intersection.  On the right corner ahead of you is a silver trash can that Touchdown is sitting on. Rotate to face forward with the flow of traffic.

Move forward to the next intersection.

Turn right at the intersection

Move forward to the next intersection
Move forward through the intersection
When you have just passed over the white paint marking the crosswalk, stop.

Turn right to see a black milk crate sitting next to a thin rectangular sign on the sidewalk.

The bear is sitting on the black milk crate. Turn and go in the direction with the traffic. Bridge is to the right. Turn right at traffic light and go under the bridge. Next chance you get turn right. Construction to the right. A yellow sign with a person on it to the left. Stop beside the white and black sign and touchdown is sitting on the top of the sign.  Orient yourself so the green dumpster is on your right. Continue straight through one intersection and then underneath the bridge. Continue straight through another intersection. There is a playground behind the tall chain link fence to your right. Continue until, on your left toward the bottom of the fence, you see a small blue peace sign next to a yellow smiley face painted on a bench just inside the chain link fence. Touchdown is on the blue peace sign.  GO WITH traffic and GO RIGHT at the light. GO RIGHT again at the SECOND light. There will be a fenced in treed island on your left and a very long stretch of red awning on your right. GO THROUGH the next light.

STOP at the box shelter on the right. ROTATE RIGHT to face the bus shelter.

FIND Touchdown sitting at the center of the bench in the bus shelter. Turn so the bushes and trees are on your left, go forward into the intersection.

Turn right and go forward through the first and second intersection.

At the third intersection you'll see a store with red banners, a blue awning, a yellow awning and then a green awning.  Turn right.  Step forward.

On your right is a red shopping cart.  Touchdown is on the bottom part of this shopping cart. From the starting position, look to your left so you're facing in the same direction as the flow of traffic. Move in this direction a short distance until you get to an intersection. At the intersection turn right.  Move down the street until your first intersection. Turn right at that intersection down the one-way street. There will be a restaurant with orange awnings on the right. Just after that restaurant, on the left (opposite) side of the street, you'll see a large sign with an orange arrow in the large window of a restaurant. Touchdown is on the tip of that arrow. turn to go down the street going with traffic, there is a blue trash bin with a blue tarp on your right side, go down this street to the intersection. At the intersection go right, to your right is a bright red awning, to your left, multicolored pillars on the side of the buildings. Continue to the next intersection, turn right, there will be a row of blue bikes to your right. Continue down this street until you come to a building on your left with stone stairs with multiple flower pots on the top 3 steps. The door way is arched and has lamps on each side, the bear is on the left lamp Going with the flow of traffic, go to the first intersection and turn right.  At the next intersection, turn right again.  You'll see an awning on your right with a bike on it.  Go straight all the way down to the next intersection and turn left. On your left will be a green pole that has a red bike leaning next to it.  Touchdown is on the center of the back wheel.  Face the intersection next to you and step into it.  Turn right.  Go through the first intersection.  You'll see a green fire escape on your right, keep going.

At the next intersection, turn right.

Go forward until you see a large orange barrier cone on the right.  This is in front of a small parking lot.  Touchdown is on the top of that barrier cone. Align yourself so the red, blue, and orange flag is on your left. Head up to the intersection to make a right here. There should be a mail truck on either side of the road and scaffolding up ahead on your right. You'll head through the first intersection straight, and shortly after, you'll pass a parking garage bay entrance. Stop at the two black awning entrances of the garage, a little to the left of it  Touchdown will be on the black awnings right white arrow, at the entrance. Face the flow of traffic. Go straight and take a right at the intersection. Continue straight past the next intersection and take a right at the upcoming intersection. There will be a building with a red awning on your left. Move straight. You will see a white postal truck on your left. Touchdown is on the back of the truck.  Follow the traffic direction, go to the 1st intersection. You will see some red/yellow umbrellas on the left and a store with green sign with white letter on it.  Turn right here at this intersection. Go straight and turn right at the next intersection. Once you made the turn there will be three red/yellow umbrellas on your left and then scaffolding. Now go straight towards the scaffolding with blue tops on the right side of the road. Pass the scaffolding on the right you will see a truck with open back on the right side. Pass the truck. There will be a white delivery truck with purple and orange letters on the side and back. behind the truck there is a white van. Next to the van on the sidewalk there is a pole with two signs. White/red and white/green sign with numbers and arrows. The touchdown is on the green sign, in the middle of it.  Align yourself so the loading docks are on your right. Head up to the intersection to make a right. Shortly after, make another right. There should be a red lane on your right side. Follow this road down until you almost hit the intersection. You'll stop directly in front of the bus stop, if you look at the ad, touchdown will be on the mans face. Face the intersection and hang a right.  There will be an orange overhang on the right with a large blue pole at the end.  Head down past some scaffolding on the left and barriers on the right.  Go straight through the first intersection.
At the next intersection, take a right.  The median should be on your left and there are planters all along the right side of the road.  Hang a right at the next intersection -- it is a 3-way.
Once you start down this road, you will notice some orange netting on a wooden frame to your left.  Head past that and stop at the first silver pole on your left.
There is a piece of paper on the pole at eye level.  Touchdown is hiding behind that. Follow traffic to the light and go right. Go straight through the 3-way you encounter and go right at the next light. At the next light, go right again. To your right will be a white building with graffiti on plywood over the doors, and on the left, green construction fencing with k-walls in front of it.  

Rotate right for Lucifer, Lord of Darkness and Destruction, a red demon with horns on a white sticker half peeled away on the pillar of brown bricks.  Face him; Lo! With the Lord Upon Thine Side, He Shall Not Harm Thee.  But, also, Touchdown is sitting on his face. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  A parking lot is to you right.
Turn right at the next intersection.  The building on the right side of the street will have green marquees with yellow test all the way down.
Turn right at the next intersection as well and you should see scaffolding on your left.
Head down this road a way passing through scaffolding on both sides.
Stop just past the scaffolding on both sides and you should see a dark pole with a blue band on the right.  Touchdown is on this blue band.



 Orient yourself so the closest bridge is in front of you, you might have to look up to see it.  You should be going the same direction as the traffic on your side of the barriers.  Begin walking.  Touchdown is on this road, and you don't have to make any turns.  On your right, you'll pass a baseball field.  The end of the field is the halfway point for how far you're walking.  After the baseball diamond is a long white building and beyond the end of that building is a set of signs across the road.  Stop when you're right in front of those signs.  On the right side is a post with signs on it, a white squared on on the top, followed by a yellow square one, and on the bottom is a blue one with white markings on it.  Touchdown is in the middle of the blue sign. Face the intersection and enter it. Then proceed straight down the street with the food court on your left and the movie theater up ahead on your right. There is a parked red double decker bus on the left in front of the food court. Proceed down the long block and turn right at the end. Just keep going straight despite the odd map jump. The subway entrance will be on your left after making the turn at the intersection and on your right there will be large advertisements above the retail entrances for a red big box store with a bullseye symbol as their logo. Proceed almost to the next intersection. Above the right corner of the intersection is a speed limit sign and two one way signs. Touchdown is on the arrowhead of the lower one way sign.  To your left is a large fence covering what appears to be a basketball court inside of that court is a wall painted with a large piece of street art. To your right should be a building with a maroon awning and a black fence around it. If you look up the building on your right has what appears to be a large balcony with a silver fence going around. Once you are in position please head straight.
You will be crossing through two intersections and on your left you will see a red brick building with a large blue awning that has white letters on. You will still continue straight however this will help verify your on the correct route.
After continuing straight for a short period of time you will run into all white building on your left it is very large and has brown bars over the windows with a black fence going around it. On the right you will see several red brick buildings.
One of these buildings has two green mailboxes sitting in front of it on the right across from the white building on the left.
The mailbox with the graffiti written on it is the one that touchdown is sitting directly on top of. Turn and follow the flow of traffic.  Take your first right.  Then take the next right.  Go through 1 intersection.  When you get to the next intersection, stop just before you enter it.  Look behind you, there is a red bike.  The bear is on the seat. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
There should be an overpass ahead.  Turn right at the first intersection.
The overpass should now be on your left.  You will pass a green dumpster and take a right at the intersection after it.
The overpass should now be behind you, head forward and turn right at the next intersection as well.
Head down this road and you should see scaffolding ahead on the right.
Go past it and into the intersection ahead and turn right but do not leave the intersection.
On your right will be the road you just came up.  On the corner there you should see orange and white barriers with some black netting around the construction they are doing.  Touchdown is hiding on the cap of the fire hydrant on this corner. Follow traffic and go left at the light. There's a green awning with white text on your right. Go through the next light, and as you come to the one thereafter, a small island with two white bollards with a green post with two small yellow diamonds will be on your right.  Rotate left.  You should be facing a tree. To the left of it are 3 yellow kiosks and a single orange one.

Touchdown is center atop the orange newspaper kiosk.  (It's important you walked past it, and that it's to the left of the tree as you're facing the tree.) Orient yourself with traffic, proceed, and turn right at the first light. Turn right at the next light as well. Stop in the first crosswalk of the next intersection. A sign ahead on the left in the median has two yellow diamonds near its base. Touchdown is on these diamonds. Turn so you are facing with the flow of traffic. There should be a place with a black sign and red awning to your left. Next to that is red and white striped awning. 

Move forward to the next intersection. Turn left. You are still going with the flow of traffic down this new road. Up ahead there is construction scaffolding to your left. Walk past the scaffolding and down the street. This is a long street, but you will go all the way to the intersection.

Once you are in the middle of the intersection, look to the left corner in front of you. There is a green pole that holds the stoplight next to a low box with colorful pictures on the sides.  Touchdown is on the ground where the two are next to each other. Turn so the park is on your right. Keep going down this road, under the big green signs that are overhead. Don't take the exit, but stay on the road. Where the exit starts there is a short guard rail and cement barriers to your right. Keep going. There is a yellow diamond shaped sign on the right with a square yellow sign below it and white rectangle sign above it. Keep going until you see a pole with a blue rectangle sign with a white inner square. Below the sign is a red box on the pole with an arched top. Touchdown is on top of that red box.  Orient yourself with traffic and proceed forward. Turn right at the first light then right at the next as well. Follow this street  and turn right at the first light again. Pass the start of scaffolding on your right. Stop just before a store with no shop front on the right. Touchdown is on top of a black fire hydrant on the left sidewalk. Go in the same direction as traffic.  There will be a reddish-colored building on your right and a store with a blue, yellow and white sign above it on your left. 
 Move forward to the first intersection and turn left.  You will heading the same direction as traffic.  Move forward to the first intersection you encounter on this road.  Turn left again.  You will be heading down a street where there is scaffolding on the left.  Head down the street just a big until you get to the start of the trees on the right.  Touchdown is sitting at the base of this first tree to your right.   Turn so the playground is on your left, and go forward.  Turn right at the intersection.  Just after you turn, note that there are large white words painted across the road (the ones that go all the way across).  Stop when you're standing on those words (or they're just a smidge ahead of you).  On your left and slightly ahead of you is a tall narrow street lamp.  The bear is on top of the lamp. Face the intersection just ahead, there will be a phone booth with a pink sign to the left and a store with large glass windows on your right.
 At this intersection directly ahead of you, Turn Right. And travel to the traffic light just ahead and Turn Right again.

Now that you are on this one way street there is a store with a red and white  sign to your left, on your right a hot dog stand with a red umbrella.
Proceed down this long street passing scaffolding on the right and then on the left and through this small construction zone.

After passing that construction to the left, start paying extra attention to the right side of the street and notice a bright orange ladder on the right side, pass it and the scaffolding it leans on and Stop.

Rotate to your right and see the gold colored revolving door, above that door are three numbers :-). Touchdown sits atop that middle number.


 Go up the wide road, with scaffolding to your right and the white and orange traffic barriers to your left and take a right at the light, now passing green wall on your right and a building with silver metal bollards in front of it on your left.

At the end of the block, walk straight into the center of the intersection.

Face right.

On the square yellow concrete crash block between the tunnels you should see two orange lights, one on either side of the green metal post.  Touchdown is impaled on the right orange light.



 Turn and follow traffic down the street. Go straight at the intersection. There will be a playground  to your right. Go straight at the intersection. There will be a green awning then a blue awning to your left. Turn left at the intersection. A green awning and then a yellow awning to your right. A dumpster to your left. As soon as you pass the dumpster there is a chair sitting on the side of the street. Touchdown is sitting in the chair. following the traffic where the construction with red/orange color is on your left and the green board is on your right. You will be following the truck instead of the bus. Go that direction. pass the first intersection where the red and yellow truck are on your right. Still go straight. You are half way there when you see a red truck with white letters on the left and a police car on the right. Keep going straight,  pass the crosswalk. Go to the next intersection. You are at the right intersection when you see the mobile carrier building on your right, with pink letter and white letters, and on your left there are green construction boards covered the building. Heading to the other side of this intersection, you will see a blue/ white bus on the right side. When you almost catch up with the back of the bus look to your right, there is a construction sign. The touchdown is on the sign.  follow the flow of traffic to the third traffic light and turn left.Just a few feet down this road there will be a church on your right with a gate at the steps. Touchdown is sitting on the bottom step of this building with the gate open Turn yourself so you are facing with traffic and see some striped umbrellas on your right and start down the street.  Turn left at intersection.  You will be on a brick street with a fire escape on your left.  Start down the street.  Go past construction scaffolding on your right. Turn left at intersection.  You will see some black banners on your left as you head down the street.  Turn left at intersection.  You will be a on brick street  with a reddish building on your right with iron grates over the windows.  Past that you will see some orange and white construction barriers on your right.  Touchdown is sitting on the end white barrier. Turn yourself so you going with traffic.  A red awning should be on your left and a blue construction scaffolding and wood should be on your right.  Turn left at first intersection.  Continue down street past orange construction barriers on your right.  You will also pass a gray mailbox on your right.  Immediately past the mailbox you will see a green pipe coming up from the sidewalk between a green metal sliding door and a gray metal sliding door.  Touchdown is on top of the pipe. Go with the flow of traffic.  The median will be on your left.  Go to the intersection and turn right.  There will be a fenced in parking lot on your right.  Go to the intersection and turn right again.  There will be a green bike lane on your right this time.  Go to the next intersection and turn right one last time.  As you head down the street, watch for two green awnings with lights hanging off of them.  Stop after you pass the first, but not the second one.  Turn 90 degrees to your right.  On the tan brick building to the right of these awnings is s spherical light with a gold top.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this light.   You're going to need to position yourself with the flow of the traffic. You should see lots of red brick buildings to the right. Go to the next intersection and take a left. There's going to be more red and orange brick buildings. Go past those and you will then see a tan brick buidling on your right before the buildings turn red again. The touchdown is on the middle of the white sign on the ground.  Go with traffic flow to the next corner and turn left. 

Again, go with traffic flow to the next corner and turn left. 

Going with traffic flow, go quite a ways down this road. Go past construction scaffolding on your right, then some will be on your left after that right away. Go past that as well. There will be a red awning up ahead on the left, and more scaffolding on the right. Before the scaffolding on the right is a gray building with an arched doorway with steps leading up to it. Touchdown is on top of that arch.  Turn until the blue metal bridge is to your left. You should see an archway in the distance. Walk straight toward the archway. You should pass the archway and exit the ramp into the intersection. Turn left. The building with the yellow columns and red awnings should be in front of you to the right. Walk straight past that building keeping it on your right. You should reach another intersection just past the building. Walk into the middle of the intersection and turn left. You should see the arch from before in front of you. Walk down the street toward the arch. There should be small white posts with silver rings near the top to your right. Stop right when you reach the last one. Touchdown is at the base of the last one. Move with the flow of traffic to that close intersection, and turn right.
Now continue to the next intersection, passing trees in the median to your left, and turn right again.
Now on your left are several black awnings. Move ahead to the next intersection and turn right again. You should now have a short stone wall on your right covered with bushes.
Move ahead to the next intersection and stop before exiting it fully. On your right there is a trash bag next to the stoplight pole. Touchdown is on top of the trash bag. Turn yourself so that there is a green wall to your left. You will be going against traffic. Go forward through the traffic light. The road curves slightly but stay on it. When you come to the next intersection, turn right. Before you go all the way through the intersection, you will see green fencing to your left. On the fence there is a large square white sign with a red arrow on it. Touchdown is sitting on that sign.  You will begin in an intersection. Get yourself situated so you can go down the road that has a brick building on the left with a black bottom, and a grassy corner on the right in front of a tan building. There is painting/graffiti on the bottom of that tan building on the right. Go down this street. Part way down you will need to go right just a bit, but don't turn, just keep going forward. At the next intersection, go right. 
Go to the next intersection and turn right.
Go past the dumpster on the right. 
Just before the yellow awning over the building on the right is a black hydrant with a silver top. Touchdown is on top of that hydrant. Turn towards the overpass and go under it.
Stay to the right of the cones. Head into the tunnel.
Right as you're about to exit the tunnel and can see daylight, stop.
Above on the right on the white tiles, below the row of blue tiles is a metal object where Touchdown is hiding. Stand so you are facing away from the intersection. Go forward, passing the flag on your right. At the intersection, turn right. You'll pass a few yellow store signs on your left. Continue to the intersection and turn right again.

Then at the next (3-way) opportunity to turn right, do so. You'll have a park on your right. Continue past the park; on your right will be a bright red door. Touchdown is on the middle of the red door. Turn yourself so that the phone booth is on your right. You will be going with the flow of traffic. Go straight until you get to the first intersection. Turn right at the intersection. You should see silver scaffolding on your right. Keep going down this street until you come to the first intersection and make a right turn. Go straight on this road and when you come to the traffic light make a right turn. As soon as you turn, look to the left and you will see a building on the corner with a green awning. In front of this building is a silver column. Touchdown is sitting at the bottom of that column.  Align yourself with traffic. Move past the intersection in front of you. At the second intersection take a left. Move down this road to the next intersection. Take another left. Touchdown is on the water spout at the base of the building to your right.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Follow the road through the first two intersections.
At the next large intersection, turn slightly to the right, putting the red banner on your right.  Moving down this road you will see a striped awning on the right followed by some scaffolding.  Turn right at the little 3-way intersection right after the scaffolding.  Move down this narrow one way street and stop just past the next 3-way intersection.
To your left will be a court and a playground.  You should be a few steps from the entrance.
On your left by the playground on the sidewalk is a red sign on a green pole.  Touchdown is hiding on the sign. Go with the flow of traffic.  When you get to the first intersection, go straight. At the next light, turn right.  You will have some trees and flowers in potted in the median to your left.  Of this grouping, Touchdown will be on top of the last conical tree that you see to your left.  Go with the flow of traffic.
Keep going straight.
Pass the iPhone X billboard on your right
At the Next intersection.
Make a right,
You will see a man riding a bike with white and blue stripped shirt.
On your right you will see a construction worker with a neon green shirt, that has one foot in the air, on the back of a red flatbed.
Touchdown is on top of his hard hat.
  Turn around so you are going against the flow of traffic and turn left when you reach the first intersection.  You will still be going against traffic.  There will be a store with a red awning on your right.  Follow this road until you are just in front of the red awning.   Look to your left and you will see a green garbage can near the corner.  Touchdown is sitting on top of that can in the middle of the can. Align yourself with the flow of traffic. At the first turn, make a left. Go down to the next intersection, and make another left. You will ignore the first intersection, and shortly after it, on your right, you will see a brown/tan building. In front of that building, there's a red bike. Touchdown is sitting on the seat of the bike. Turn so you are facing the same direction as traffic and parked cars. Go straight to the intersection. At the intersection, turn right. Go straight just a bit until you come to an intersection. Turn right. Begin moving straight down this one way street with some construction in the street up ahead. Continue straight for awhile until you see an intersection with a street light up ahead. Just before the intersection, there is a building on the left corner with a long row of rectangular panels. Touchdown is in the middle of the first rectangular panel, the panel furthest from the corner.  Turn and go against the flow of traffic and you will see 2 orange barrels in the road Touchdown is sitting on top of the first barrel Turn so the black construction and white flags are on your right.  Follow the flow of traffic watching for the first turn to the left, there will be a store with thin red awnings on your left when you turn.  Follow this road and turn left when it T's into the next road. You'll see a small yellow flag ahead on your right.  Follow this road and stop when you get to the corner of first turn to the right in front of the store with green accents.   Touchdown is sitting on the black hole in the middle of the silver garbage can with a blue lid.  It is to the right of the one with a green lid. Face towards the direction of traffic and head straight a little and turn right at the intersection.

Go straight down this road and turn right at the next intersection again.

Go straight all the way down this road and you guessed it! Turn right again at this intersection.

Go straight and make a right at the next intersection so you're back on the road from where you started. Go barely forward until you're right beside the the big open container with a white van behind it. The touchdown is on the side mirror of the white van. Turn so the trees with lights are to rout right and you are following traffic, at the 1st intersection take a left, There will be a store on your right with a large red heart on the sign. Continue to the next intersection and take a left there is a building on your left with red and white striped awnings, this is a one way street, continue down this street. You will pass a courtyard to your right with outdoor seating and a row of bikes. there is scaffolding to your right with green roofing, once you pass this scaffolding you will be a light post with a blue flag and a red sign, the bear is on the red sign Turn so the two red octagon shaped signs are in front of you.  Head out into the street ahead and turn right.
Head straight through the first intersection that allows you to turn left and the bypass the option to move to the left and turn.
Just past the third, you will be next to a green bus on the right.
Above the front of the bus just ahead, you will find Touchdown hiding on a red and white sign attached to a pole. Orient yourself so that you are moving with the flow of traffic, on the one-lane road. Go straight to the next intersection and turn left. Just before the next intersection, the corner on your right has a black store with a rainbow colored ribbon at the top. Touchdown is on the ribbon. From the starting position, orient yourself so you are looking in the same direction that traffic is moving. There will be a cool space with designs on it to your right. Move straight in the direction of traffic. Go straight through the first intersection.

At the 2nd intersection, take a left. You'll quickly see a traffic light. Go straight through that traffic light down a one-way street. You'll pass some food vendors with a yellow and red umbrella on your right. Continue forward until you are past the green scaffolding on your right. In the distance up to your left you'll see a large sign that looks like a bulls-eye. Touchdown is in the middle of the bulls-eye. Go with the flow of traffic and you're going to turn right at the first intersection. You should see a red shop on the right and a huge shop on the left with huge windows. Go down this road until you hit the second intersection. You should see a blue shop on the right. You're going to take a right here. Now there is a red shop on the right. Follow this down to the end of the road to the stop sign. take a right. A white truck should be on the left. You should see a red bell on the concrete. That is your touchdown.  Orient yourself so you are facing the same direction as the traffic and the bar with all the flags is on your right.  Go to the end of this block and take a right at the intersection.  There should be a building on your right that has a store with a red sign across the entire top, then a store with a black sign across the entire top.  Just past this black signed store, right before you enter the next intersection, stop and turn to your left.  There is a black and gold building with two flags above the entrance.  Touchdown is going to be on the tip of the flag pole closest to the next intersection, the one holding the american flag. turn so you are facing the same direction as traffic, there is a metal fence with ripped tarp on your right, start travelling forward under the pedestrian walkway and to the traffic light. at the traffic light notice the white, and then orange barriers .
And Turn Left 
After turning, there is a construction mess to the left and a few storefronts to the right.
Travel straight on this street to the end of the block, halfway down you are going under an overpass
when you arrive at the intersection, continue into the middle of it and stop under the second overpass.
Look to your right and slightly behind and see the green metal trash can next to the vertical support beam. Touch down is sitting on top of the trash can Turn so that the white building is on your right. Walk forward through the next intersection to the next one. You should pass a small playground on your right along the way. When you reach the intersection turn right. There should be black fencing and large trees to your left. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. Go down this street until you reach the next intersection. Walk past the crosswalk and face right. There should be a blue store in front of you to the right . There is a wooden door with four glass sections. Touchdown is in the middle of those sections. Turn so the red flags are on your right.  Follow the flow of traffic until you reach the first intersection.  Turn right.  There should be  single blue awning on your left now.  Proceed down this road and turn right at the first intersection.  There will now be a sore with red awnings on your right and a brown brick building on the left.  Continue down this road, watching for the area of green construction.  After the construction there is a black wall with white writing.  Stop when you reach the end of that wall.  Look to the left and there is a red pipe beside a green pipe in front of a black store with large windows.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the red pipe. Turn around to face with traffic, then go to the end of the block, and take a right. There should now be a red bus lane on your right. Now go to the end of this block, and take another right. There should be parallel parking on the right side of the street and diagonal parking spaces on the left. Now go forward to the end of the block again. Now take one final right turn, there should be a store on your left with an red oval sign. Go forward a little, and you will see a black oval sign on that same store. Touchdown is in the middle of that sign. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and at the intersection next to you.  Go straight through this intersection.  It may appear to throw you to a different street.  Just go forward, you'll see blue fencing on your left.  Keep going.
Turn left at the next intersection.
You'll see a yellow sign on your left that has people on it.  Go just past it.

You'll see a post with a blue band on the top on your right.  Touchdown is on this band. With traffic, go left at the light. [Interface issue: This will require going past the light and backtracking via arrows.]
Go thru the next light. Scaffolding is to the right. Rotate left.  

There is a two lane ramp that descends into darkness.  The black back of a sign can be seen in the median between the lanes.  Touchdown sits atop it.
 Go with traffic. You can see a large battleship.
Make a right at the intersection.
Stop just before the battleship is to your left.
There are two fighter jets on the battleship.
Touchdown is sitting on the left wing of the first fighter jet to the left.  Go forward against traffic, and at the light, go right and immediately right again, back down the street you just came on, but on the other side of the divider.

Go straight through the next two intersections, and left at the third. Go almost to the end of the block, where you'll see just ahead and to your left a white building second to last from the corner, and a storefront with a red sign band with white text on the left corner itself.  Face to your left, and you should see a white sign on two blue poles, and a blue shape in the middle of the white sign, with three blue water droplet looking things joined together.

Touchdown is dead center of that sign. Go in the direction where you will have orange mesh fencing to your left and green temporary construction walkway to your right. Go straight through the next intersection, the store to your right will have a green awning. Continue straight and go straight through the next three way intersection, you will see a blue mail box on the right. Go past this mailbox and then on the left will be the start of a temporary green construction walkway, stop right where this starts. On the right will be a light colored building with red doors. On the building with the red doors are flags. Touchdown is at the tip of the pole holding up the yellow and white flag.  Orient yourself to go with the flow of traffic. There will be a chainlink fence on your left and a mail truck in front of you. Go straight and make a right at the first intersection.

After this right, Go straight and make another right at the next intersection.

After this right, go straight and make yet another right at the t shaped intersection.

Go straight and stop at the stop sign. Look to the right. the touch down is above the stop sign on the black and white sign with an arrow, in the middle With your back to the intersection, go the same way as traffic. Go right at the next intersection. There are trees in planter boxes in the middle of the road. To right at the next intersection. There is metal construction posts on the left and a building ahead on the right with a green awning with white letters. At the next intersection go right. There is an orange pole billowing smoke right in front of you after turning. Go to the construction area on the sidewalk to the right. Stop just to the side of the dark short post on the sidewalk to the left, with a blue stripe around the top. Touchdown is on top of that post.  Turn to follow traffic to the intersection and go left.

Go left again at the next intersection, where you'll be on a very narrow street with trees on the sidewalk to your right and a fence to your left.  Walk until you're just behind a long green overhang on your left and have a rounded green overhang on the building to your right.  

To your right you should see a green rounded mailbox to the left of a very trimmed tree.  The touchdown is sitting directly on top of the mailbox. Stand so that you are moving with the flow of traffic and facing into the big intersection. Go straight into the intersection and turn left (you will see in the distance two large pointed steeples). Move straight through the next intersection; when you reach the second intersection, go left.

Continue until you come to a 3-way intersection with a small street jutting out to your right. There will be an orange porta-potty. Touchdown is on the yellow sign on it. Turn so the green construction on the corner is on your left.   Proceed forward and turn right at the first intersection.  Follow this road and turn right at the next intersection. 
 It's when you see a brown brick building is a yellow circle painted on it.  Go down the road with the yellow circle on your left, just until you get to the end of that building. At street level there are two plastic blue boxes for storage in front of a black door.  Between the two black doors is a white square. Touchdown is on that white square. Go forward with the bridge on your right and the baseball field on your left.  Go left at the light, on the right* side of the road (*and side for the United States).

At the light, go left, and then right, into the oncoming traffic lane, and stand on the crosswalk.  Face right. You should be staring at the island, with a trash can slightly left of the center. To the left of the trash can is a single bollard not attached to the chain the others are.

Touchdown is impaled on the lone black bollard. Align yourself with the flow of traffic. Head down until you can make a right turn, you are going to turn down the angled street to your left. Head down this angled street, and make a left at the first intersection.

You'll pass a right turn, go straight ahead until you are at the purple flags on your right, with the first purple flag on your right in front of you. You'll see a bench underneath the purple flag, Touchdown is sitting is sitting on the middle of the bench. turn so that you are moving with the flow of traffic and head straight through the intersection you are right by at the next intersection take a left
there is scaffolding on your right side and a mini intersection coming up right away go straight thought that 1st intersection and at the second take a left
just before the next intersection on the left you will see a pink cellar going down touchdown is sitting at the entrance to this cellar

 Turn so the large brick building with lots of stairs is on your right.  Go forward to the intersection in the distance.  At that intersection, turn right, going down the one way street with the flow of traffic.  Go straight through the first three way intersection until you're at the intersection right in front of the overpass.  Turn right at this second intersection, and walk towards the bridge in the distance.  Go straight through the first intersection.  Just past the intersection, you will see a basketball court on your right.  Look up, touchdown is on the light bulb of the first streetlight. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Move forward past the 3-way intersection.
At the next intersection that is blocked up ahead, turn right.  Turn right at the next intersection a short distance away.  Move a bit and stop when you're next to the food cart.  Up ahead on the building to the left is a blue flag that is hiding Touchdown. Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. There should be a large fenced-in sports field to your left, and you should be on the left side of a fork in the road.

2. You'll be traveling straight for a while, following the road as it curves to the right. After passing beneath an overpass, you should see another fenced-in sports field to your right. While passing it, the road will fork. Keep to the left.

3. After the field and on the same side is a road perpendicular to the one you're on, and after that is a brick building with a large religious painting on it. You're getting very close.

4. After this, you should see a fenced-in parking lot affixed to this building. Stop when you're at the last section of the fence. Make sure that you don't pass it up completely.

5. In front of the brick building to the left of this, you should see a pile of black garbage bags on the sidewalk. Touchdown is sitting on the topmost garbage bag.

Good luck! :) Orient yourself do that the large glass windows are on your right side, and on your left will be a dark brick building with smaller windows. Go down the street in the same direction was the traffic. You will pass some orange construction cones on your right side. Keep going until you come to an intersection. Turn left at the intersection. You should now see a stone building with some construction stuff on your right side and a building with a black awning on your left. Go in the direction of traffic. Continue until you come to another intersection. This time, take another left. Now you should see a fence on your left and a bike parked under a tree on your right side. Continue down this street. Turn to your right. You will see an orange and black building with two large roll up doors. Before the first door, there is a red and white sign on the black part of the building. Touchdown is on top of the sign. With the yellow awning with red glyphs to your left, go to the light and left. At the next light go right.  At the light after that go right again.  The corner shop will have a broad white sign band with black and red letters.  Stop after the pink building after it, and rotate left to face the black building after the pink brick one.  Touchdown is on the very bottom green glyph. Go into the intersection that is very close to you. Make a left. This road curves. There are grassy areas on both sides. Go down this road. The road curves more as you keep going. When the road straightens ahead and you are at an intersection make a left turn. After you have turned there is green covered scaffolding on your right side. Go straight. You will see a long blue dumpster on the right. Go forward until you are right next to the door that is open on it on the end. You should see a red door behind that. Touchdown is on the door handle of that red door.  Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic, away from the busy intersection, so the orange netted area is on your left. Go forward to the next intersection, and turn right. 
Go to the next intersection and go right again. Move ahead to the next intersection (the busy street), and turn right. Go forward until you are at the start of the next intersection (where you had started). Stop before entering it. Ahead on your left is a square green sign. Touchdown is on that sign. Head in the direction you are facing. When you arrive at the intersection just keep on going straight. Follow the road and at the next intersection make a right. Your in the right direction if you see a medicine store on your left. Its a red brick building. Head down this dark alley until you stop at the stop sign before reaching the crosswalk. On your left side should be a motorcycle and a stop sign. The touch down is in between those two but sitting on the curb Stand so you are following the flow of traffic. Move ahead to the intersection and turn right. At the next intersection turn right again. At the next, again, go right, then stop. Face right and the corner store is black with yellow signs. Touchdown is on the yellow sign farthest left.
 Follow traffic and go left at the light.  Go left again at the next light.  Follow the curvy road and stop just before you're even with the small final door of the building with blue bricks on the bottom under red bricks on top.  Rotate right. The door should be to your left.  Touchdown is on the light directly above the door. Follow traffic and go through the stop signs. You'll have a fenced in court and then park to your left. Go right when you reach the next light.  Go right again at the next one.

Stop when you clear the green area behind the black fence and can rotate left such that the street lamp pole is slightly left of you.  There's a red bollard slightly to your right. Touchdown is atop it. Turn so you ar traveling in the same direction as the cars are.  Go straight until the first intersection then take a right turn. There will be a green awning that extends out up on the right sidewalk. At the next intersection turn right.  There will be a single green awning on the left, continue down this street. On the left side, you will come to a yellow building with a black first floor and garage door. Pas it on the same side is a red storefront. The Touchdown is  the bottom right corner of the right window.  Go with traffic flow to the first corner you come to. When you reach the middle of the intersection, there is a green trash can directly in front of you that Touchdown is sitting on top of.  Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Move ahead along this road; you will pass through one 3-way intersection. At the 4-way intersection, turn right. Continue straight through another 4-way intersection. When you reach an opportunity to turn left, stop. Face left and there is a plan white door. Touchdown is in the middle of the door. Follow traffic to the light and go right. Go right again at the next light, and right again at the one thereafter. When you reach the next light, step on to the crosswalk without going further, and rotate so you're looking up the right hand street, with the old wooden building now on your  right.

Touchdown is on the closer of the two metal tie down posts for the tree on the sidewalk in front of you. Position yourself going with the flow of traffic, so a blue parking meter is on your right and a striped awning is over a door on the building to your left.  Turn left at the first intersection. Turn left again at the next intersection. After you turn, you'll have a building with red awning to your left. 

At the next intersection you get to, turn left again, so you've now turned left three times. Stop at the crosswalk of the next intersection. Look to the right, and you'll see a green trash bin next to a gray pole. Touchdown is on top of the trash bin.  Turn so the scaffolding is on your left and go right at the intersection, entering a one-way street the wrong way into oncoming traffic. You'll have more scaffolding to your left and see green railing around stairs descending into the subway on both sides of the street. Walk to the end of the block and go left, now having scaffolding on both sides of the street.

When you see an opening in the green wall to your right, that has an alcove with a dumpster and trashcan in front of it, and a white traffic barricade with orange stripes to the left of it, as you're facing it, find Touchdown directly against the bottom of the triangle of the wooden horse barricade, sitting on the sidewalk.
 Follow the flow of traffic and go straight through the first intersection. Turn right at the second intersection. There should be a white bus parked on the right side of the road. Stop once you reach the next intersection. The touchdown is on the base of the trash can across the street on your right. Turn so the intersection is behind you and the bright blue awnings are on your left. Go to the end of this block and make a left turn. You will have some scaffolding on the right with a different kind of green canopy over it. Go to the next intersection and make another left turn. Once you turn there is a white bay window on the brick building on the left. Go most of the way down this street. You will pass some scaffolding on the left. When you come to the second scaffolding on the left that sticks out into the road. Come to a stop as soon as the first part of it is on your left side. Turn to your left and you should be looking at a corner on the wooden fence where there is an orange diamond up on it and a red circle and a white square. Touchdown is on the red circle in the middle. Orient yourself so that the shop with the green awning is ahead and to your right. Continue and then turn right at the next intersection. Stop once you pass the speed bump. There should be a blue motorcycle on your right in front of the silver car. The touchdown is the front wheel of the motorcycle.  Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Go forward to the close intersection, and turn right. Move forward and pass through one 3-way intersection. Then there is an opportunity to veer right: do so. Follow this path until you come to a small pedestrian crosswalk, with a planter of flowers on your left. At the start of the planter, face right and there is a black trash can. Touchdown is on top of the trash can. Turn so that the waterfront is on your left. You should see a small archway in the distance. You need to walk to that archway. Once there you should be standing in front of the crosswalk at the entrance of the walkway.

Touchdown is in the middle of the small white and red sign on the skinny post to the right inside the archway. You may need to take a small step to the right to reach him. Move with the flow of traffic, past the green mailbox on your right, and continue until the next intersection. Take a right. Now move between brick buildings on both sides. Soon there are green awnings on your right. At the next intersection, turn right again.

Now move ahead down this street with trees. When you are close to the intersection, there is a gray post with a blue stripe near the top of it. Touchdown is on the top of the post. Turn so you are traveling with traffic. There will be a white delivery van parked to your right. Head down this street straight. When you come to the light take a left. There will be a business to your right that has a yellow awning with red letters. Go straight down this street a block and take a left at the intersection. Go a very short distance until you see a whitish colored bike chained to a sign on the left side of the street. Touchdown is sitting on the seat of the bike. 
 Stand so that you are walking with the flow of traffic; you will pass the building with glass windows and red signs on your left corner. Walk straight, with the traffic flow, to the next intersection. Turn right. Walk straight, passing a row of school buses on your right (across from a row of blue trash bins). Continue until you see a green structure covering the sidewalk on your left. If you walk just past this green structure, turn back and see that there is a yellow motorcycle in front of the structure. Touchdown is the motorcycle. Face the building with the blue hexagon symbol and make a quick right. You should have two steel and glass building on both sides. Go straight until you get to the second light and make a right. You should have a white sign with red dots to your right. Go down that street and stop when you get the the building with the yellow letters and yellow arches. Touchdown is underneath the last letter of the store name. Align yourself with the flow of traffic on this small street, with the scaffolding on your right. Go to the first intersection, and make a left. At the next intersection, make another left. About halfway down this road, you'll encounter some construction barricades and some pylons. Head straight to the last pylon before the blockades start again. Touchdown is sitting on the last pylon. Orient yourself in the direction of traffic and go through the first intersection. At the second intersection, take a left. There should be a building with two red striped floors to the right. Go straight. You will reach a building with a large overhang on the right. Go past it. Eventually you will see a black canopy to the right. Touchdown is sitting on the top of the canopy to the front. Orient yourself with traffic. Turn left at the light and follow the road's curves. Stop in the middle of the first intersection. The building ahead and to the right has a blue box on it. Touchdown is on the box. Follow traffic to the light and go left.  A yellow shop is on the right corner, followed by striped awnings and a blue bike rental area. Go almost to the end of the block.

Stop when you're even with the red building before the green one on the right, and before reaching the bright green brick building on the left. Rotate left. You should be looking at a building where you can see the red brick building on the opposite side of the street reflecting in its upper windows.

On the green building to the right, the red fire escape ladder's bottom rung extends over the green portion. Touchdown is sitting on that rung. Align yourself with the flow of traffic. Take a left at the first intersection, and then another left at the next one after that. Go down this street a bit until the large yellow moving truck is on your right. Touchdown is in the P in the logo of the truck on the side, not the back. Turn yourself so that there is a theater to your left and a blue bus stop sign to your right. Go straight down this road until you come to the first traffic light. Make a right turn at this light. You should see a blue mailbox to your right. Go forward on this road and when you come to the next traffic light, make another right turn. You will see some silver/gray barriers to your right. As soon as you pass those, on your left you will see a tan and brown building with arched windows. Each archway has three windows in it. Look at the very first archway and Touchdown is sitting in the middle window of that archway.  Hello there!

1. You should be facing the correct direction at the start, but if you aren't, orient yourself so that your going with the flow of traffic.

2. Move forward, passing through a three-way intersection (it doesn't look like there should be an intersection here, but you're merging into another lane). Continue for a little bit until you reach another three-way intersection. Take a right.

3. When you reorient yourself, some scaffolding with a green awning should be to your left and the overpass should be directly behind you. You'll be moving straight down this road for a while. When you finally reach an intersection (another three-way), take a right.

4. When you reorient yourself, there should be a large brick building with a little park area to your right. From here, you're very close to your destination.

5. You should still have the park area to your right. Stop when you see that a little red vehicle in the park is directly to your right. Between you and this little vehicle is a green umbrella on the ground next to a signpost close to the road. Touchdown is sitting on the little black end of the handle of this umbrella.

Good luck! :) Go straight with the bike lane to your left. At the intersection with a green store to your right, take a right. Go straight a bit. When you have reached the end of the green store, stop. Touchdown is sitting on a column with a blue stripe on it to the right. Follow traffic, with orange striped white k-walls to the left and scaffolding to the right. Go right at the light. Go to and thru the next light. 
Stop after passing the orange barrels. Look ahead to the right. There is a large bay door, with a pair of yellow bollards on either side of it.

Touchdown is in between the two yellow bollards on the left side of the opening. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, and make a left at the turn. At the next intersection, make another left. 

Follow this road down, and make yet another left.

About halfway down this street, you'll see red advertisements in the window of this store, followed by silver shutters on the building to the right of it. There is a potted plant in front of the final red advertisement but before the silver shutters. Touchdown is sitting on top of the potted plant.  Align yourself so that you are going towards the building that has brown paper in the windows and the scaffolding is behind you but both on your right hand side. Go straight and turn right at the first intersection, where there is a red food truck on your right hand side.  On your left there will be a blue awning and above it a blue flag hanging down.  Touchdown is hiding in the middle of that blue flag. You're starting in a four-way intersection. Only one of the corners has a white building.  Turn yourself so you'll be passing this white building on your right side.  Go in that direction until you reach another intersection, and turn left.  
You'll now have lots of black awnings on your left, and construction scaffolding on your right.  Go straight through the first two intersections you come to.  
Now you're near your target.  On your right is a row of lots of potted bushes/plants.  Move forward until you're even with the last batch of these potted plants (if you're past all the pots you've gone too far).  Just beyond (to the left if you're facing the sidewalk) the potted plants you'll see a very large rock.  The bear is on top of the center of this rock. Turn until the blue mailboxes are on your left and the red post is on your right. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. There should be an orange sign to your left. Walk forward until you are standing in front of the intersection. You should be standing right before the second to last bike logo in the middle of the street. Face right. You should see red pipe near a black fence. Touchdown is on top of the red pipe. Turn yourself so you are facing a green wall covered in graffitti. Go into this intersection and turn right. Go straight until you reach the second intersection. Turn right. Go straight and pass straight through an intersection. Shortly after goinf through the intersection, look up ahead and see a couple orange and white construction barrels on the right side of the road. Above these barrels, there is a black digital sign. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of this sign.  Begin moving with the flow of traffic so the green scaffolding is on your right. You'll be merging with traffic on your left just up ahead. Keep going straight. When you get to the first intersection with a traffic light, turn right. There will be a playground on your right after you turn. 

When you get to the next intersection, move straight into the middle of it. Look ahead and to your right and you'll see a row of blue rental bikes. Touchdown is sitting on the seat of the first bike.  Orient yourself so there are two white vans on your right. and 4 yellow and orange newspaper stands on your left. Go straight passed the first intersection. at the second one, make a left. there should be two red cars in front of you now, one is parked, your following the other. Just before the next intersection youll see a row of blue bikes on the left. the touchdown is located on the seat of the first blue bike. Position yourself where you see a building with blue and red stripes and off to the side is a crane far off in the distant, Follow the road heading in that direction passing your first traffic light until you arrive at another intersection in which you should notice the blue and red scaffolding. Make a right turn and follow the road. Eventually you should notice a motorcycle parked on the curb on your right. To the right of the motorcycle is two yellow boxes. The touchdown is sitting on top of the yellow one that is close to the motorcycle. Turn away from the intersection and towards the overpass. Walk forward. You will pass through another intersection, but there will be no option to turn. Keep going straight until the next intersection.

Turn right, there will be a business with a red squared awning on the right corner. Walk down to the end of the block.

Stop just past the middle of the intersection. If you look to the right there will be a lighted sign held with yellow bars on the light pole. Touchdown is on the left side of the lighted sign. Walk out into the intersection and make a right. Go straight through the first intersection. At the next, make a right. Only  a few steps onto this street, you will see a light pole to your left with a paper sign on it. Touchdown is sitting on the sidewalk in front of it.  Turn and go in the same direction as the traffic. You will be at an intersection. Go straight here. There will be some blue scaffolding on the left. At the end of the scaffolding you will see an orange and white cone on top. Touchdown is on the cone.  Orient yourself in which there should be a blue bike on your left. Pass the blue bike should put you at an intersection. Make a right turn and follow the road. Continue passing every orange cones you see on your right hand side till you arrive at the last cone. You will arrive at another intersection once you pass the last cone in which you should make a right turn. Follow the road passing all the parked cars and bikes putting you at another intersection. Make a right turn at this intersection and pass the trash can on your right hand side. Pass the flag, white and gray awning, and black fire hydrant should put you at another intersection. Once at the intersection make a right turn. Follow the road till you pass two bikes parked on the right. Once you pass those two bikes, there should be a bike in front of you on your right. The touchdown is sitting on top of the seat. Orient yourself to go in the same direction as traffic, turn right at the lights, go to the end of the block and turn right again.  You should be headed down a bigger road with a center divider with plants and trees.  Go straight through the first intersection, on your right, the corner store should be painted bright yellow.  As you continue straight, you will pass some green scaffolding on the right, followed by a store painted rust-red with two box planters in front, and yellow flowers planted to the side of the doorway.    Touchdown bear is on the yellow flowers. Follow the flow of traffic on the one-way road with construction on both sides. Turn right at the first intersection and go forward. Turn right at the next intersection and go forward. Stop once you reach the next intersection. There will be a one way sign on the median to your right. The touchdown is the left part of the sign (the arrowhead).  align yourself so the parked bikes are on your left and the scaffolding on your right. move forward past the 1st light, on your right nearing the intersection you will see 4 orange drums with caution tape on your right, move forward to the intersection. At the intersection take a left, there will be a building covered in an artistic color pattern on your right. Just at the next intersection, there is a green trash bin next to a sign pole, the bear is in top of the bin When you start you will want the barriers which as orange and white to be on your right. There will also be a building with gray windows and doors on your right. On the left should be a brick building which seems to have the windows covered with green sheets of some sort and a black door. Also on the left is a building with wooden stairs and a plywood looking wall.
Now head straight until you reach the end of the road where you must turn right or left and make a right.
Now continue straight into the first intersection and make a right.
Now continue straight until you come to the first  intersection.
Make a right turn and go to almost the end of the road (where you come to the first intersection).
If you reach the actual intersection you have went to far. Look to your left for  planter with a green milk crate and touchdown will be sitting directly on top of the crate. Standing in between two crosswalks, you should be facing toward a boarded up corner store on your right. Turn right and walk down the street, keeping the boarded up store to your left. Walk through the first intersection, past a mail truck on your right. You will see another white mail truck in the distance. Don't walk that far, turn right at the next intersection. Walk straight past the blue tarp that is covering boxes in the street. Keep walking past the yellow signs with the red octagon in the middle of them.  Walk to the middle of the next intersection and see a corner store on your left with red neon letters in the window.  Turn to face corner of the store, and Touchdown is sitting on top of the short phone booth on the right of the store.  Stand so that the brick building is to your right. Move ahead to the intersection and turn right. Move to the next intersection and turn right again. Then you'll come to a long black awning coming out of a building on your right. Touchdown is on top of the end of the awning closest to the street. Go with the flow of traffic, go to the first intersection and turn right. You'll turn right at the next intersection as well.  You'll go halfway down the block until you see an awning on your left that has a rainbow on it.  Then you'll  see some  window boxes planted with some pretty greenery.  Look for the grey square planter between that business and the business with the brown awning. Touchdown is at the top of the grey planter. Follow the flow of traffic, with the yellow arches on your left and make a left at the second intersection. Pass the brown building with blue awnings on your left and make your last left at the traffic light, where you see the flag on the left. Go down this one way street, passing the green scaffolding on your left and stopping when you reach the end of it. On your left, by the beige/brown building, Touchdown will be on the black arrow that is on the black sign with white/yellow letters. Stand so that the yellow newspaper box is on your right and the green trash can is across from it on your left. Move forward, passing between these 2 structures, and when you reach the next intersection turn right. Soon after that, on your right is a green wall with 5 sections. Touchdown is on top of the middle section. Follow traffic to the light and go right.  Go right again at the next one.

Pass the next light you come to, and go left at the one after it.

There'll be scaffolding on your right.  To your left will be the first opening under the corner building.  Rotate to face it head on.

Touchdown is on the first arrow on an orange circle on a dark grey beam. Step into the intersection and follow the orange road barriers down the hill. You may have to go up the street and than turn back down the hill. Turn right at the first intersection. A paid parking lot is on the right corner of the upcoming intersection.  Turn right again, the same paid parking is on your right. Turn right again and the paid parking lot is still on your right. Stop next to the blue dumpster on the right. There is a parking cone between two orange barriers at the end of the blue dumpster. Touchdown is sitting on top of the orange parking cone. Follow the flow of traffic, where the orange cones are on your left, stay on the right lane of traffic, stop before you get out of the tunnel, on your left there with be two gray squares on the wall. Touchdown is on the bigger gray square closest to you on the left. You need to start with the flow of the traffic. On your left you will see a white delivery truck. Go to the intersection and go left. You will go past the scaffolding on the left until the next intersection where you will take a left. Now follow this road that has scaffolding and lights on the left. You're going to go past a bunch of brick buildings that have a ton of garbage outside. You should be right next to a black SUV. Your touchdown will be the middle of the top square sign on the pole.  Turn so you are facing the clock in the distance. Turn left. You want to walk into the middle of the intersection that is in front of you. Once there turn left. You should see orange umbrellas to your left and a red corner store to your right. Walk forward until you pass the basketball courts on your left. Stop once you pass the window in the orange wall on your left. There is black piping sticking out of the orange wall. Touchdown is in the middle of the piping. Go in the direction the cars are facing and make a right at the light. Go down that road and make a right at the light. Go straight and you will find touchdown to your left in front of the entryway of the building by the fruits. Turn towards the intersection with construction across the road.  Turn right at the intersection.  Barriers should be on your left as you move forward.  Turn right at the next intersection and you will have scaffolding on the left and a painted red lane on the right.
Move forward, past a 3-way intersection.  Keep going and you will eventually come up next to a blue awning jutting out on the right where you should stop.  Just past that is a dark storefront with white and pink letters.  Touchdown is on the big pink letter. Turn yourself so that you are facing the direction the cars are parked.  Move straight ahead. Trees should be on the right side of the road and the cars to the left when you are facing the correct direction. Keep moving straight until you reach the next intersection. A store with a blue banner should be to your left, and a store with an orange banner should be to your right. Turn left at this intersection. You should see a yellow van with graffiti. When you get close to the yellow van, a red set of stairs should be directly to its left. Directly in the middle of the first step from the bottom is Touchdown. Stand so you are following the flow of traffic. When you come to an intersection, turn left. Then go to the next intersection and go left again.  Continue until on your left you come to 3 large blue doorways in a row. Touchdown is in the center of the first blue door/gate. Align yourself with the flow of traffic on this street. There should be traffic cones barring off a van to your right. Head left at the intersection, and go straight through the next. Keep heading past the intersection until you see a lit red sign with two faces for the dots in the sign. Touchdown is on the right face. Orient yourself so that you are going with the flow of traffic. There will be a maroon canopy with 5 windows over the canopy on your left. Go straight on this road. Go through two traffic lights. At the third traffic light, make a left. Go forward on this road. You will pass a red brick building on your right and a dumpster on your left, keep going straight. You will see some orange construction barriers on your right. Once you go past the orange barriers, you will see a red fire hydrant on the right. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant.   Face the park and make a right. The park is now on your left. Follow it down the street and make a right at the second intersection. There is now a green awning on your left and black awning on your right. Go forward, stop when you reach the traffic light and are in front of the square orange sign. Touchdown is in the center of that sign/ Move with traffic,go to the 1st intersection and take a left. there will be scaffolding on the left and blue awnings on the right. Go to the next intersection and take a left. The store on the left has plants and trees all around it,go to the next intersection and take a left. on your left is a trash can followed by red and orange newspaper boxes, just past them is a half circle driveway, there is a green sign with a bike on it, the bear is on that sign at the entrance
 Note that you're almost going in a complete circle (square) on this route, so you'll be basically going around this block.  You're standing in an intersection when you begin.  Move around a little until you're at a point where you're ready to choose which of the four directions to go.  Note that one corner has a place with blue signs, one corner has green signs, another corner has a green construction wall, and the fourth corner has orange and white construction barriers.  Turn yourself so you'll be moving between the construction corners as you leave the intersection - orange and white barriers on your right and green construction wall on your left.  Go forward until you reach the next intersection and turn right.
Now you'll have construction on your right, and a low wall with fence on top on your left.  Go forward to the next intersection and turn right again.
Now on your right you have a brick wall with wide strips of white and brown bricks.  Go forward to the next intersection and make yet another right.
The building on your right on this block has scattered blue tiles on the wall, and just beyond it is a large panel that's orange and yellow.  The building on your left has a long row of rental bike racks along the side of the building.  After the building with the rental bikes you'll pass two places with red awnings.  Stop when you've just made it past the second place with red awnings.  Near the red awning restaurant you just passed is a trash can (near the street).  The bear is on top of the trash can. Turn and go in the same direction as the traffic. Trees with lights on them will be on the left. Turn left at the intersection. Blue strip on store on the right. Turn left at the intersection.Burgundy store header on the right. go straight thru the next 2  intersections. Before you get to the next intersection look for 2 orange and white barrels on the left on a corner. Touchdown is on the first one.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  The construction area with orange and white barriers will be to your left.
Go straight through the next intersection and the 3-way intersection that follows.
Turn right at the next intersection.  When you do the building on the left side of the street will have a long row of green awnings on the first and second floors.
Go forward and stop in the next intersection.
On the right will be a lot of scaffolding.  In the middle of it will be these large white signs with 4 symbols on the left sign and a large logo on the right side.

Touchdown is on the right logo. Go with the flow of traffic.  There will be some construction barricades ahead of you on the left.  Go to the intersection and turn left.  You will be going against traffic.  At the next intersection, turn left again.  You'll be going with traffic again and there will be a street food vendor on your right.   Go down this street, stopping just before you start to cross the crosswalk.  Turn 90 degrees to your right.  There is a green hose hookup coming out of the sidewalk   Align yourself against traffic and move forward to the intersection. To you left in front of you is a wall covered in graffiti. Touchdown is on the yellow graffiti picture.  Turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  An orange diamond-shaped sign should be on a lamppost on your right, and you should not see any green construction walls ahead of you.  Walk straight up this road, and pass straight through the first intersection you come to.  

Continue moving straight and move straight through the next intersection you come to.  There is a pink and white banner hanging from a lamppost ahead of you.  Make sure that you are still moving toward that banner as you pass through the intersection.  

Move forward a bit further, past the banner, and you will come to another intersection.  This time, you will see orange rectangular signs with black letters and numbers.  Stop in this intersection and turn to your right.  

You should be facing down a narrow street with brick buildings on both sides.  Walk down the road between these two buildings.  The one on your right should have some red letters on it.   

Just keep moving forward, and you will come to an intersection with traffic lights.  Walk into the intersection, and ahead of you will be two white signs with red circles.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the sign on your left. Turn and walk in the same direction as traffic.  At the intersection, you will see an orange storefront on the corner to your right.  Go left.  You will see a sign with a hamburger and french fries to your right immediately after turning. Walk ahead. Go left at the next intersection.  There will be a rack of clothes outside a shop on the left, and a red door just beyond. Walk just past the door and turn to look at the building it is on. See an open hatch in the walkway to the right.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the traffic cone near the hatch. Turn so you are going with traffic. At the light ahead take a right. Go straight one block. Take another right. There will be a series of small orange signs on the right of you. At the next intersection take a right onto a cobblestone street. Go down this street until you just pass the green construction barriers on the left side of the street. Ahead on the right is a tree with a sold looking green square around it. Touchdown is sitting at the base of this tree. Turn so that you're facing in the direction the cars are driving. Continue straight to the first intersection, then turn left. Go all the way down the block, then turn left at the next intersection.  Going down this street you will see a set of 2 orange and 1 white plastic construction barriers. Touchdown is sitting on top of the white plastic construction barrier. Turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street, and follow the yellow construction vehicle straight through the intersection, and into the middle of the next intersection.  Stop when the construction vehicle disappears and you see a big white truck with black logos directly in front of you.  Turn to your left, and you should see a construction worker in a bright yellow vest standing in the crosswalk.  If you see him in front of you, walk forward, following the black sedan.  It will be long straight walk down this road.  When you see big yellow trucks parked on both sides of the road, you are about 2/3 of the way there.  Eventually you will see a bright yellow sign on the right with two black stick figures on it.  You will also see a big truck parked on the right side of the street, with its rear door open, and a man moving a wooden pallet inside the truck.  Take one more step forward, until you can't see the man inside the truck anymore, and then look to your left.  You should see 3 flags on poles in front of a building.  Touchdown the Bear is just above the American flag in the middle From your starting point, please turn around so that you the intersection is behind you, and you can see a red lane to your right, and a green lane to your left.  There should be bright yellow signs on poles on both sides of the sidewalk ahead of you.  Walk down this road until you come to an intersection.  

Take a left at this intersection.  You should be walking down a narrow lane with a shuttered storefront with graffiti on your left and a brown awning and red letters on your right.  

Pass two maroon awnings with yellow letters on your right, and then keep going until you see bright red awnings on your right.  When you see those red awnings (with white lettering), move forward until you are standing right next to a small white and red sign on a pole on your right.  

Look to the right-hand sidewalk.  You should now see a small A-frame sign that has two sheets of white paper on a black background.  Touchdown is sitting right on top of this frame. Turn yourself so you are facing against traffic and there are potted plants to your left and start down the street. Turn left at intersection.  You will see a large red Christmas decoration of ornaments and trees with lights on your right as you head down the street.  Go straight through intersection.  You will see a clock on your right.  As you approach the clock you will see a large decoration of Christmas lights o your right.  Touchdown is sitting between the two red lights that are next to each other. Turn to where the blue bikes are on your left. Go straight and turn left at the first intersection. Start going straight again and go the next intersection turn left at the intersection and then stop immediately. Look back toward the street you came from and you'll see a traffic cone on the corner. The bear is on the tip of the cone. turn to move with traffic, you will pass a purple awning on your right, keep moving straight, you will pass a store on the left with jeans displayed in the window. Move toward the intersection and take a left. There is a store on the left at the next intersection with ads for eye glasses, go straight through this intersection, there will be rows of bikes on the left, after you pass the bikes, there will be a light post with a box with a box on it, the bear is on the box Turn around and align yourself with the flow of traffic on this street. Head through the first intersection, and turn left at the second. At the next intersection, make another left.

On this road you should see a mostly empty row of blue bikes. You should see an intersection you can't turn in to a couple steps ahead. If you look to your left in this intersection, you'll see a park sign and some construction barricades. Touchdown is on the right red arrow on the larger park sign. From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  There should be a parking lot behind a fence on your right, and a bright orange diamond-shaped sign on a lamppost just ahead of you on your right.  

Walk forward down the slope, and pass the first side street on your right.  After you pass the large pile of trash bags, take the side street to your right.  You should walk down a narrow lane between a parking lot behind a fence on the left and a red brick building behind a vertical black fence on the right.  

Walk into the T-intersection at the end of this narrow lane.  You should be facing a playground with blue benches.  Turn to your right, and move forward, so that the playground is on your left.  Pass the side street on the left, and keep moving down this narrow lane, where you will soon pass another side street on your right.  Move straight forward, passing a parking lot behind a fence on your right and a vertical red box on your left.  

Walk a little bit further, and you will soon see a grassy courtyard with trees on your left (opposite the parking lot).  In this courtyard, in front of a red building is a pile of bricks.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this pile.  Follow traffic, with scaffolding to the left and a parking lot for buses on your right. Go left at the light. Go left again at the next one. The store to your right will have blue posts in the window and orange signs with white text above them.

Go through the 3-way. Stop a step past the metal roll-up door between two light-blue brick pillars, rotate right to look back at it, and find touchdown atop the white floodlight to the right and above the door. Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Go straight through the first intersection, and turn left at the second (3-way) intersection. Then move ahead until you reach a 4-way intersection, and turn left. Then move straight through one 4-way intersection. Soon after it, on your right is a bright red door in a brick building. Touchdown is at the top of the red door. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, and go down to the intersection. Make a right at that intersection, and another right at the next intersection. A few steps before the intersection, you should see some valves below a no smoking sign. Touchdown is on the yellow valve. Follow the flow of traffic, with the white store sign and red/green letters on your right. Pass the scaffolding with the white/orange barriers and continue down the street, making sure to go through the first intersection and stopping before reaching the second intersection. On your right, there will be an underground entrance that has a green fence with two poles that have green/white balls. Touchdown is on the green/white ball that is closer to the building. Stand so you are moving with traffic. Move straight to the intersection and turn left. Continue to the next intersection and turn left again. Move straight for awhile and before you reach an intersection, you'll see a long blue store awning on your left. Touchdown is on the corner closest to you, before you reach it. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, and the apartments on your right. Head to the turn, and make a right. Make another right at the intersection.

You should see a bus stop on your right shortly in to the road, Stop past it, at the parked red car. Touchdown is on the visible headlight of the car. Align yourself with the public service truck and the van with a cone on its roof. Go down this road and ignore all right turns. When you hit your left turn, at the construction, take it. Follow this down until two steps after the first right turn. On your right, you'll see two men standing in a picture in the blue themed window. Touchdown is sitting on the P in the window. turn to face with traffic, then go to the end of the block and a take a right. Now go forward, past the dining area on your left, and past the graffiti on your left, then keep going until you reach a yellow traffic cone. Go back very slightly, there will be a bit over three blocks, and there will be apartments on your right and stores on your left, with fire escapes and red and yellow signs. Touchdown is right in front of the traffic cone.  Stand so that the two red rectangular store covers are on your left, and the pile of trash bags is on your right. Step forward, and then you will be able to turn. You need to turn left. Do so, and you should be on the narrow street with the red covers to your right and a red phone booth to your left. Go down this street to the intersection, and go left. Move to the next intersection and turn left again. Then you will come to a 3-way intersection; you need to choose the left option to veer back sharply. Now move down this street until you are almost at the intersection. On your left is a restaurant with a rounded white awning. Touchdown is on the top of the awning. Putting the large two tone gray building to your right and the smaller storefronts to your left,   turn right at the first intersection. The two toned gray building should still be on your right. There is a park ahead on your left. Go through the next 3 way intersection, and notice the flag with a orange star/leaf shape on it ahead on your left. Stop just before it and you will find Touchdown sitting directly on top of that flat, in the middle.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic with the large orange and white barriers on the left.
Turn right at the next intersection and you'll have bright red awnings down the street on the left.
Turn right at the next intersection where you will end up with blue/yellow and red/yellow umbrellas on the left next to a food cart.
Move forward until you pass the start of the scaffolding on your left.
You should see a dark pole with a blue band on the right.  Touchdown is on this blue band.
 If you look around you should notice a fence that has one traffic cone near it and two in front of it. Head in that direction passing the red truck until you arrive at an intersection. Make a left turn at this intersection and move forward till you arrive at another intersection in which you want to make a left turn. Once you make a left turn and pass the cross walk. You should be near a black fire hydrant on your right and some blue bicycle parked on bicycle rack. The touchdown is on the seat of the bicycle close to the fire hydrant. From your starting point, please turn around so that the intersection is behind you, and you see blue awnings over storefronts on your right.  Walk down this road, and you will pass between parking lots on both sides as you go.  Just keep moving straight.  

Just walk straight through the first intersection you come to, and keep walking toward the bridge up ahead, and then walk under the bridge, ignoring the small alleys that you will see on both sides of your road.  

After you pass under the bridge, you should see a yellow sign with black stick figures on the right side of the road.  Walk past this sign, past the small open lot on the right, and then stop when you have just passed the open doors on your right that are under a stone archway on a storefront.  

There should now be a forklift parked just to your right, and a closed garage door directly to your left.  You are now in the right place to find the bear.  

Look to your right again, to the storefront with the archway.  You should see a red-and-white logo that looks like a small skyscraper with a pointed tip.  Touchdown is sitting right on top of that point. Face the direction of traffic.  If you see green signs ahead, go forward.  Go forward under the signs, you should be getting close to a bridge.  When you can, get in the right lane so you can turn right ahead.  Turn right and when you get to the split with the orange/yellow bins with black tops, take the road on the right.  Go forward and down the ramp a bit.  There should be a red and white sign with a white star in a red box on your right.  Stop when you get there. Touchdown is on the star on the sign. Turn and walk in the same direction as traffic goes. There will be colorful flags ahead on the right. Go to the first intersection and turn right. Coming upon the next intersection, stop just before entering over the crosswalk. There is a corner store ahead on your right with a picture of pizza on it's red sign. There is a red post in front of the store. Touchdown is sitting on top of that post.  Move with traffic into the intersection close to you, and move straight through it. Now you should have a row of black awnings on your left. Move to the next intersection and turn right. Now move down this longer block until you reach the next intersection, and turn right again.

You should have green awnings on your left. Move ahead to the intersection and take another right. Stop in front of that first store on your left with a faded yellow sign with red letters. There is a small red sign on a pole in front of it. Touchdown is on that small red sign. Face the light, and turn right at the intersection. Turn right at the next light. Go through the next light, and turn right at the second light onto a one way. Follow the curve in the road, stopping at the first divide in the fenced in green spaces on the right sidewalk. A black street light hangs over a sitting man on the right walk. Touchdown is on the dome of the light. With the water to your left, go with traffic. Notice the large white and gray building coming up on your right. Go to almost the end of it, stopping and turning to face it. There are circle stickers on all of the windows. You should be in front of the 4th one from the left, and Touchdown is right in the middle of it.  Orientate yourself to face the same direction as traffic of the six lane street  and proceed forward.
Travel one block and at the first intersection you reach, make a right turn onto the one way street. There should now be a store with a red and black awning to your right  and a cream colored building with cream colored fire escapes to the left.
Proceed down this street a street and come across a small fenced in construction are jutting into the street on the right side.

Continue until you are almost to the end of the fence and see a small white and red rectangular sign with white and black text on your right. There is a pale yellow tank behind it.
Touchdown is on the center of this sign.


 Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. There should be six large rectangular grates on the left wall of this tunnel ahead of you. You'll be following this road without turning.

2. When you reach the lines of traffic cones, keep to the lane that you're in and head towards the next tunnel. You'll be merging with other lanes.

3. This is going to sound odd, but when you enter the tunnel, you'll be transported to another tunnel. When you land there, you'll be in a three-way intersection. Move backwards very slightly, and stop.

4. There should be four small, metal doors on your left. Touchdown is in the middle of the red and white sign at the top of the last one.

Good luck! :) Go with traffic.
Go straight at the first intersection. You will pass an empty clothing rack in the street on your right.
Turn right at the next intersection.
Stop before the upcoming intersection.
Look to the left, there is an orange bike leaning on a taxi light pole. Touchdown is sitting on the orange bike seat.


 Step into the nearest intersection. Turn so your looking at the Spit in the road.
Go to the far left street of the spit. There is a large gate on the parking lot entrance to your left on this street. 
Turn right at next intersection. You will be behind the building in the middle of the spit from the start.
Turn left at the next intersection. Make sure to go around the two do no enter signs and into the far right lane.
Keep straight at the option to turn left.
Keep straight at the option to turn right.
Enter the next intersection and stop next to a parked mail truck.
On the right side a little in front of you is a red fire hydrant. 
Touchdown is sitting on top of the red fire hydrant.


 Find the black and gray fire hydrant and keep it to your left as you go down the street. Turn left at the first intersection. A empty lot will be on the left corner. Keep straight at the right turn only. Turn left at the next intersection. Look left and stop just pass the start of blue poles of the scaffolding. There are small lights on the scaffolding. Touchdown is sitting on the first light in the row. Turn so you are heading into the intersection and go straight through it. You should have a green wall fence on your left side and some sold orange and solid white traffic barriers on the right side with a lot of metal pieces behind them. Next intersection you come to go straight again. There is a parking lot on the left side. Go straight one more block. Turn right. Now there is a gas station on your left side and parking lot on the right. You will go most of the way down this longer block. You will pass the blue dumpster on the right side. Past the dumpster on the right there are some more orange and white barricades with some blue metal pieces behind them. Stop when you are next to the blue things. There is an orange traffic cone next to those. Touchdown is on top of that cone. With the port a potty's to your right, go into the intersection and turn left. At the next intersection, turn left. Go straight for awhile.  There will be some scaffolding ahead on your right, go past all of it. Stop before you get to the walk over ahead.  There will be stairs going on your right.  There's a lime green bike leaning up against the rail by the stairs.  Touchdown is in the center of the front wheel. Turn so you're behind a white car with a black top.  At the intersection, turn right.

You'll be on a large street with a park on the right.  Go forward.  You'll pass some green scaffolding. At the intersection, turn left.

Go forward a couple times and stop.  You'll see a woman in purple, a blue car, and a trashcan on the right.

Touchdown is on the trashcan. Turn so that the building with the tiny glass squares is to your left.  Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left. There should be brown and white striped awnings to your right. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left. There should be orange and white barriers to your left. Walk down the street past the tire shop, past the purple and pink graffiti, and past the construction and scaffolding. When you get to the second section of scaffolding stop next to the clear garbage bags. You should see three garbage cans behind a little metal fenced in area to your right. Touchdown is on the top of the middle can. Align yourself with the white and beige building on your left that has the red doors, and move forward with the flow of traffic, making a left at the second interception. There will be a green storefront on your left. Continue past it and make a left when you reach the end of this tiny interception. After making the left, you should still see the green storefront still on your left but now there will be a beige building on your right that has a green awning sticking out of it. Move forward, passing the green awning on your right, orange/white cones on your left and making a left onto the small side road, where you now see lots of potted plants on the side of the building to your right. Continue down this small road, making a right with the curve and stopping at the white building with the brown frame around the door to your left. Touchdown is on the light fixture, that is on that brown frame above the door. On your left should be an orange fence, and on your right should be a black fence.
Head straight until the road dead ends. Now make a right. If you are in the right place you will be running parallel with some bridges above your head. go straight you will see a right turn but do not take it, however you can veer right to continue straight, which will take you alongside the bridges rather than under them. 
Make the next right, and you are on a gray brick road.
Go straight through the first intersection then go through the next one and right past the second one you will see a  fire hydrant on your right, Touch down is sitting directly on top.

 Turn so the bike lane is on your left. At the intersection take a right. Go straight. At the next intersection take a right and go straight ahead.  Go through the first intersection you come to. Stop at the next intersection. Look for the red benches ahead. Touchdown is sitting on the arm(closest to you) of the bench to the most right.  Align yourself with the flow of traffic, and make a right a couple of steps up. Follow this road down until you're at the yellow blocks on the ground in the curve, and the delivery truck on your right. Touchdown is on the box in the delivery drivers hand.  You will be sitting in the middle of an intersection. Position yourself where you will have the tan building with red to your left and go down this one way traffic street. You will turn left at the intersection. Gray barricades will be to the right. Turn left the first chance you get. A building with green is to the right. You will pass a couple of garage doors on the right. You'll see some construction on the right. During this construction area you'll see a black awning and touchdown is sitting on top.  Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic. Continue forward to the next intersection and go straight. Ignore the three-way intersection and once again continue forward to the next intersection and go straight, this will be tricky. Once you're past the intersection you should see several rows of nearly barren trees on the right and some lush trees on the left. Continue down this road until you have nearly reached the bus stop on the left. Turning left to face the bus stop you should see a green pole on the left. Click the base of the green pole to find touchdown. Orient yourself so that you'll be going with the flow of traffic. You will see a large orange sign on the building to your right. Turn to the right at this corner. At the next intersection, turn right. You'll have parking spots to your left.  Go right at the fork, don't veer to the left.  You should be in the right turn lane.  You'll need to take a right turn here.  You'll have a playground to your right. Go straight through the next intersection.  Once you get to the next intersection, go straight through and stop.  There will be a red pole next to the light pole on your right.  Touchdown is on top of this red pole. Turn so the large blue construction awning is on your right. Go to the intersection shortly ahead and turn left. Go through the 3-way that comes up shortly after that.

Continue to the next intersection and turn left. When you turn the park with the ball field and track will be on your right. Go up to the light you see in front of you and turn left. 

When you turn there are orange & white barriers to your right and a park on the left with courts. Go down just past the barriers on the right a bit, just beyond the flagpole to the left with 3 flags on it. Touchdown is at the very top of the flagpole. Go with the flow of traffic.  There will be scaffolding on your left.  Go to the intersection and turn right.  There will now be scaffolding on your right.  GO straight through the intersection.  On your right, you'll see white and orange barriers followed by some scaffolding.  After that will be orange and white barriers on your left. After these barrier, there will be a light pole on your right with several different red street signs on it.  After the pole will be a entryway on your right with off-white stone columns.  Pass this and stop.  Turn to look at that entryway.  Off to the left of it, in front of a black storefront, is a red pipe coming out of the sidewalk.  Touchdown is sitting on the sidewalk in front of this pipe.   Orient yourself so you are facing down the road that has a bunch of short white and yellow poles on the center line and some orange and white construction barriers further down on the left.  Walk down to those barriers and look to your right.  There's a very large granite building with very tall windows.  At the top of the building is a very large american flag.  Touchdown is on the top of the flag pole. Face yourself so the black awning with light brown lettering will be on your right and the yellow building with swirly multi-colored painted top is to your left. Take the option on the right, then go straight down this road between these two buildings. When you get just about to the next corner there are construction cones and poles to your left. Stop when you are right in front of the second tree that's behind those cones on the left. Behind the tree is an orange cone that Touchdown is sitting on top of, next to a line of 5 gray trashcans under some very light yellow graffiti. Head towards the intersection next to the blue awning and make a left turn. You should notice a traffic light up ahead when you made the left turn. At the traffic light make another left turn. Follow the direction of the park vehicles passing the ladder on your left. Eventually you should notice a fence on your left head forward till you reach the end of the fence. To your left you should notice a red brick building with a yellow door. Next to it is an air conditioner. The touchdown is sitting on top of it. Follow the flow of traffic to the next intersection.  Turn right.  At the next intersection take another right.  Pass the bus on your right, and stop. Look up a little and see the bus stop sign.  Bear on the picture of the bus. Align yourself with traffic, and hang a right at the next intersection, about three quarters down this road, you'll start to see a green fence form with poster board advertisements on it. You'll see the first poster with a bottle on it, Touchdown is sitting on the top of the first bottle. Begin your journey by turning so that the potted plants are on your left and you are facing traffic.Walk a bit and turn left so you are between two brick buildings. When you get to the intersection, turn right so that you are again facing traffic. Walk past the building with the windows and beige awnings, which will be on your right. Turn left. There will be glass windows with brightly colored borders on your right. Take a slight jog to the right. Touchdown will be in front of the white door with the hearts on the wall. Orient yourself with traffic and proceed. Turn left at the light and left again when able. Stop when you pass all the stone tables that are on your right. Touchdown is  in the curl of a candy cane you should see in a ground floor window on the right. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the green storefront to your right. Continue forward to the intersection and take a right. There should be a large red brick building to your right. Continue forward to the next intersection and take another right. You should see a blue building with red awnings on your left. Continue down the street until you reach the next intersection and take another right. You should see a green fence with several overgrown trees on your right and a brick building to the left. Continue forward until you are just before the bright neon yellow sign. Click the middle of the neon yellow sign on the right to find touchdown. With the green carts to your right, go to the light and take a right. At the stop signs at the end of that block, go right again, and right once more at the end of that block. 

To your right should be a shop with a white sign band with huge green dimensional letters, and underneath that, a red awning.  Stop before the end of the block, just as you read the green awning of the right-hand corner shop.

Rotate right to face it. You should be looking at two square bushes in an alcove, one in front of a window, then a brick pillar, than a door, in that order. On the pillar is a light. Touchdown is atop it. Go against traffic, with the red umbrellas to your left, to the end of the block, and then left at the T-intersection. Walk just into the intersection [if you go too far, you'll find yourself teleported]. Ahead and to your left are two American flags angled off a building.  Touchdown is impaled at the end of the pole of the one closest to you. Turn with the flow of traffic and head to the nearest intersection.  Turn left and make a U-Turn.  Pass the government building on the right.  Go through the intersection.  Stop before of the stairs on the right.  There is a red circle hose hookup on the right side low by the plants.  The bear is on it. This will be a pinch confusing because this intersection's just the worst.

Orient yourself so you're facing down the street where the white building with green awnings with a blue square sign is to your right, and the red building with the colorful mural over the metal roll-down window will be to your left.

Go left at that intersection, so the red building on the corner is on your right, and the playground behind the black fencing is on your left.  You'll pass a pink awning and then a red door on your right.  Slightly past that is a red brick building with a small dome green entry canopy..  Rotate right to face directly at it.

Touchdown is center and atop the green entry canopy. Start by making sure that the restaurant with red fence is to your left. Walk a little bit to the nearest intersection which is very close to your starting position and turn left. Keep walking straight and make sure you have a fence with posters to your right. You will pass a building with a cross to your right, keep going straight. When you eventually reach the intersection, turn left. You should have a red lane to your right, go forward until you reach another intersection and then turn left. Shortly after you turn you will have a restaurant with a lot of interesting paintings on its walls, it will be to your right. Touchdown is sitting on top of the trash can inside of the restaurant. Face with the supermarket on your right and go straight. Move through the first intersection until you see a store for glasses that has a red awning. At this intersection turn left. Once you turn left a chinese store will be on your left, go straight. Pass through the next intersection and go straight. You will come up to a small gift shop on your right with red lettering. Go to the middle of this intersection and there will be an icecream store with a red sign to the front right. The touchdown is directly on this sign in the circle. Follow traffic down road with many blue bikes to your right and scaffolding to your left.  Go right at light. Go straight through next one.  Pass scaffolding and then Jersey walls on your right, and a red awning on your left.

STOP when you see two orange Jersey walls flanked by two white ones dead ahead of you, and a grey flag jutting horizontally almost directly above them (go one step further when you see the white bicycle symbol on the road, so that you have to rotate the camera down to see it just in front of you.)

Touchdown is affixed dead center to the dangling grey flag. Follow traffic, with the flag on your right.  Go left at the stop signs, where there'll now be red brick to your left and scaffolding to your right.

Go left at the light, and left again at the next one.  Stop when you're exactly at the brown doors on the left and rotate to face them.  On the second pillar to the right of the brown doors is a single white globe light. Touchdown is atop it. Position yourself so you are going to enter the small one way road and some large concrete blocks are to your left. Go straight. When you reach the next intersection there is a very red store front on the right corner ahead. Keep going straight one more block. At the next intersection make a right turn. Go straight one short block. At this intersection the building on the right side of you has everything boarded up in a dark grey color. Go into the middle of the intersection then stop. Just ahead of you on the right side there is a bright yellow shape up on the pole. Touchdown is in the middle of that.  Stand facing the direction of the traffic. go to the corner and make a left. Go straight and make a left at the first street light. There should be a red canopy on your right and blue bikes on your left. Go down that street until you reach the rectangular red and black sign near the red canopy. to the right of that there is a black building with two tree plants in the window. Touchdown is right in front of the first potted plant in the window. Orient yourself so you are facing in the same direction the cars are travelling.  There should be a light pole with a lot of american flags on it ahead on your left.  Go straight through this major intersection and continue down this road to the next intersection.  At this intersection, turn to the right and make sure there is a building with a red awning and blue letters on it on your left.  Travel down this road with the flow of traffic to the next intersection.  At this intersection, turn right, and travel in the direction of the cars down this street.  Look for a large american flag hanging from a building on the left.  Just past this flag, you will see a black awning with a red circle on it on your left.  There a pumpkins on the ground around it.  Touchdown is in the middle of the red circle. Position yourself properly with traffic and see the traffic light just ahead.
At that traffic light Turn left.

Travel straight through the first two intersections.
At the third intersection there is (suprise) scaffolding to the left and a light colored building to the right with a large window.

Turn left here onto the one way street.

Proceed slowly here paying attention to your left and passing the scaffolds.
Stop short of a clear and black awning jutting into the street on your left side.
On the street side of that awning is a Black fire hydrant with a red top.
Touchdown is atop the fire hydrant.






 Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic. The yellow pillars will be on your right.  Go forward a while.
Turn right at the first intersection.
Go forward to the next intersection and when you get into the middle of it, step left.  You'll see a bunch of orange barrier cones on the right and an orange box next to a pole on the left.  Touchdown is on this orange box. Stand so you are moving with traffic (on the busy street, not the one-way road). Move straight to the first intersection and turn left. Go to the next intersection and turn right. Move forward a bit and on your left is a vertical red sign with 4 white letters. Touchdown is on the bottom of the sign. Follow traffic to the light and go right. Go right again at the next light, and again at the light thereafter. There will be scaffolding on your right as you go down the one-way street.  Stop when you reach and are standing on the crosswalk at the intersection.

On the corner across the street and to your left is an orange newspaper kiosk, on top of which is Touchdown. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  Go straight through the next intersection where the big bulls eye is across on the left.  Move forward through the next intersection as well.  You should see a long row of national flags on the building up ahead on the left.
At the intersection just before the building with all the flags, turn left.
You should see scaffolding ahead on the left and a walking bridge up ahead between two buildings.  Head forward just before the scaffolding ends and you will see a blue overhang on the left under the scaffolding.
Across the street is a big flower logo.  Touchdown is in the middle of the petals. Face yourself so the white building with chipped paint is on your right and green scaffolding is on your left. Go to the first intersection and take a right. There will be a row of yellow chairs on your right corner. Go straight until you see pink painted brick on your right. There will be plants planted in the pink brink and a light up sign above it. Touchdown is in the center of the sign.  From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  There should be a black metal fence to your right. Walk forward a bit, and stop in the middle of the intersection.  

Turn to your right.  You should see red or maroon awnings on both sides of the street, and a red-and-yellow tassel hanging from a lamppost on your left.  Walk forward, under the bridge, and then stop in the middle of the next intersection.  

Turn to your right, and try to walk down the narrow alley between the shops.    A shop with a black sign with bright yellow and white characters should be on your right as you enter the alley.  Go straight through the alley and out the other side, where you should be facing a large open garage door.  

Turn to your right, so that the garage is now on your left, and walk under the bridge.  Walk forward a bit further, and when you see a crosswalk on your left, try to angle to the left a little bit as you pass.  This will allow you to stay on the same road. If you do this correctly, a red/maroon awning with yellow lettering should stay on your left, and you should be able to keep moving forward.  If not, go straight backwards and try again.

Walk past that awning but stop just before you reach the intersection.  As you come to the street corner, you should see a decorative red tassel hanging from a lamppost above you.  Touchdown the Bear is sitting on the very top of that red decoration.  Stand and face the traffic coming at you with the bridge to your right and continue forward. On your left, you will pass a street with a bunch of trees, a brown building, and more trees. Continue moving toward the building that is under construction up ahead, going under the red railings above you, make a left when you get to the traffic light and immediately stop. You should now be off the bridge and in the middle of the intersection facing the fenced in area in front of you and to your left. To the right of that fenced in area, Touchdown will be on the first white potted plant closest to you . From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing an intersection where a green traffic light should be visible to you.  You should also see the back of a large white truck, and a building with a red stripe above its windows.  Walk straight down this street.  You will have many options when you step into the intersection, but just try to keep the red "Santander" building on your right.  If you've gone the right way, you will soon see (on your left) a woman in a black (or navy-blue) skirt stepping into a big grayish van.  If you see her on your left, keep walking straight.  It will be a long distance, so just keep going, straight through the next intersection.  Keep walking, you will soon pass a big white truck on your right, a big purple van, and then another big white truck, this one with purple and orange letters.  You're on the right track, just keep going.  Pass two big brow trucks and stop when you reach the next intersection.  As soon as you are able to do so, turn to your left so that you see a small shop with an apple on its sign on your left, and a huge poster of a basketball player in the distance.  Take one step forward onto this road.  The apple sign should now be on your left, and a red "Coca-Cola" truck should be on your right.  Take one more step forward, and Touchdown The Bear will be visible right above that apple. Turn away from the dead end and so the shop with a red awning is on your left. Walk forward so that you see a building with a US flag and a Greek flag on your left. Keep going and follow the street as it curves. You will go past what looks like intersections, but no possibility to turn.

At the light, turn left away from the overpass. Do not go all the way through the intersection though. Once you come to the corner shop with the white sign and orange stripe, go in the direction you were headed before. Now you will pass that shop on your left and be headed down the wrong side of the street. The overpass/bridge is off to your right. 

Walk down to the intersection ahead. Turn right so you head under the overpass. Keep going through the intersection ahead. Before the next intersection, start watching the right side of the road.

You'll pass a brown shop with green faux roof tiles and then a small blue awning next to it. Touchdown is on the door handle of the glass door under the awning. Start by making sure to have the buildings with stairs on your left, then continue forward. At the traffic lights turn right and then continue until you reach the another set of traffic lights. Turn right and continue straight. Keep going forward, make sure to pass graffiti on your left, keep moving forward. Turn right at the crossroads, continue slightly forward. Touchdown is to your right on the two green buttons at the gate. Turn to where you are heading downtown (Between the large buildings).  Walk forward.  Go through large intersection and continue forward.  There will be street art (Painted wall) on your right.  Continue forward.  Go through next intersection (Only has a left turn).  Building on the right had arches.   Pass this building.  Just past it, there is a mailbox with graffiti on it.  The bear is on top. Turn to go with traffic flow. Scaffolding is on your left. Go all the way to the next corner and turn right.

Still going with traffic flow, go right at the next corner. As you begin down this road there is a store on the right with a red awning. Then a store with a yellow sign that has a horizontal ribbed look with large red letters. In front of that store is  a hydrant with a silver cap between two poles. Touchdown is on the silver cap of the hydrant. Face the direction so you will head towards a big glass building. There will be a white brick building up on the right side of the street. The white building will have a large garage opening. At the crossroads you come to turn left, the big glass building will be on the right side. At the next intersection, turn left again. As you travel down this road there will be a chainlink fence topping a concrete wall on the left side. You will continue to go straight passing by a road going right. THere will be a group of trees and bushes on the right side of the road. The Touchdown is on the orange traffic cone that is sitting next to the blue parked car. Position yourself so the intersection is directly in front of you. There should be scaffolding on your right and a red post near the corner on your left. Turn right here. 

At the next intersection, turn right again. There will now be a light brown building on your left with thin blue signs and someone selling clothes in boxes outside. On your right will be a garment rack full of scarves and hats. 

Go straight. Pass a red building on your left. Shortly after will be green scaffolding on your left. When you start getting near the end of the scaffolding, look up at the white signs on the green strip of it. They are all white with black lettering. Touchdown is in the center of the second-to-last sign.  With the bridge on your left, go to the intersection with the stop sign and go right.  

At the light, go right again.

You'll pass a green entry canopy with a neon yellow pedestrian sign and an American flag on your right  and come to a light. Watch on your right for the pathway in the hedge, and go one step past it.  Turn and face to the right.  You should see a neon yellow pedestrian sign, with two mailboxes behind it.  

Touchdown is in the center and between the two olive green mailboxes, over the crack. Turn so the store with green awnings is on your left, the green construction will be behind you.  Follow traffic to the first intersection and turn right.  You will be going down a small road between green construction walls.  Follow this road, watching the green wall on the left and stop when the green wall joins with a metal and glass building. Look all the way to the right and you will see an orange fire hydrant on the island in the middle of the road.  The hydrant is between two orange poles.  Touchdown is sitting on top of that orange fire hydrant. Orient in the direction of traffic and go straight to the first intersection. Do a U-turn and bear left. Go straight through the small street and then take a right at the next intersection. Take a right again. Go straight in the direction of traffic until you see a red hand to your left. Touchdown is on the red hand. Orient yourself with traffic and proceed down the street. Pass a parked gray moped next to a chained up black and red bicycle on your left and stop once you see the four silver metal trash cans lined up next to the iron gate on the left under a tree. Touchdown is on top of the first trashcan closest to the street. Orient yourself so you are facing the nearby intersection. Move into the intersection and take a left. You should see a large theater on your left and a median to your right. Continue moving forward and go straight past the first intersection. Move forward to the next intersection and take a right. You will see a large purple billboard on the building to your right and a green electronic billboard on the building to your left. Continue down this road going straight,  do not veer left. You will pass a theater on your right followed by a red privacy fence. Towards the end of the red fence you will see a white and an orange construction barrier on your right stop just before you are in line with the construction barriers. Turn to your right and touchdown will be sitting on the bottom right corner of the white construction barrier. Turn until you are facing the curvy road. There should be two red vehicles parked in front of you to the right. Walk down the curvy road until you reach the next intersection. Turn left in the intersection and move down the street to the next intersection. The small park should be on your left the entire time. There is a blue mailbox next to a garbage can to your left on the corner. The Touchdown bear is in the mailbox. You need to position yourself so the scaffolding is on the right and you're going down a tiny road that has a lot of construction on it. Go all the way down to the intersection and take a right. You will be going against traffic now. There's a store with green lettering and a red background on your right. Follow that road and go past the first intersection, past the second intersection. You should see bar and grill on your right. Keep forward until you are almost at the next intersection. Look up at the stop light closest to the left. Your touchdown will be the green light.  Start by going in the flow of the traffic. You should see a big dump trunk on your left. Follow this street down and skip both of those one way streets. Then at the intersection, you're going to take a left down that narrow road with contruction. You should see a big brick building then up more is a red brick building. Go down this street and pass the one way street, and get to the intersection, and take left. Go past the scaffolding and you will see a person and then you will see two orange signs. Your touchdown is in the middle of the rectangle sign on the tree Head forward in the direction of the store with shimmering purple to the right. Go past the store and head toward the intersection. Take a left at this intersection with a glass building to the left. Head straight past the intersection with some trees to the left. Head to the next intersection with some scaffolding to the left. Cross it until you see some green roofed scaffolding to the right. Touchdown is to the left of some mailboxes on the right. Go forward, with the red sign band on your left and the umbrellas and light-decorated trees to your right. Go left at the light, and stop at the crosswalk before the very close by next one. There are four American flags to your right. Touchdown is impaled atop the pole of the one closest to you. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and away from the intersection you're next to.  Move forward and you will pass a bunch of bikes on the right.  At the next intersection, hang a right.   You will have purple awnings on a brick building to your left.
Head down this road past the first intersection. Moving forward, you should be approaching all glass store fronts on your left.  One of the first one is narrow framed in white.  When you get to it, stop and you should see a pole next to it with a bunch of signs on it  Some are white and red, one is green and white.  The bottom one is blue with white text and you will find Touchdown hiding on it. Orient yourself in which there is a black trash bin on your left and move forward a bit to the intersection and make a right turn. Continue under the tunnel passing all the parked cars until you come out of the tunnel. Continue forward after you came out of the tunnel passing what seem like a stadium on your left and a playground on your right. After you pass the playground, you should reach an intersection and make a right turn. After you made a right turn, continue forward, passing the bicycle racks on your right. Keep on going straight passing some benches outside on your right and the playground fence until you reach another intersection. Make a right at the intersection. Once you made a right, continue forward passing the building with the graffiti on your left and a baseball field on your right. Once you pass the fence, you should be under a bridge. To your left is an alley way that you could go too but don't go any further. If you look to your there seems to be a yellow sign up ahead. The touch down is sitting leaning on the sign on the concrete. Face so there is construction on your left and a tire store on your right.  Go to the first intersection and turn left.  Proceed forwards, pass through the first intersection, and stop immediately.  There will be a lot of construction to your left and a smaller construction project to your right.  On that right corner is a post holding the traffic lights and pedestrian walk/don't walk signs.  Touchdown is at the base of the post. You need to follow the flow of the traffic. You should see blue overhangs on your right with a parking garage on your left. Go to the intersection and take a left. You should see a big red thing to your right that spells out a word and construction cones on the ground. Go to the next intersection and take a left. You should see a gold and red sign on your left and some red overhangs on the right. You will see some christmas lights on your right as you pass the stop signs. Go down until you see the lit up sign on the overhang on the left. Your touch down is the center of the emblem in the front of it.  Put the yellow doors on your right.  Head forward.  Head through 3 intersections (The last one has 2 sections).  There will be a playground on the left.  When you are almost past the basketball courts, the bus will block your view.  The bear is in the middle of the red hexagon. Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic and the church is on your right side.  Go forward until you reach an intersection, and turn right.  
Now you'll have a stone building on your left where the stones look like they are horizontally striped because of the way they're carved.  Go to the end of this short block and turn right again.
The striped-looking stonework is on your right now, with a nondescript apartment building on your left.  When you've passed the striped stonework building, the next building has glass balconies that look out over the sidewalk. Stop when you're just past these balconies.  You'll be in between the balconies and the awning over the entrance to the building.  The awning is a triangle at the end, and the bear is on the tip of the triangle.
 Turn so you are going with traffic. At the light ahead turn left. On the left is a stone building with large columns. Go straight one block, Take a left at the light. There will be a brick building on your right with green awnings. Go to the next intersection and stop when you are just past the crosswalk. Look to the right for the median with a built up planter. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of what looks like a plaque at this median.  Turn so that the playground is on your left.  Continue down this road,  Go through 1 intersection, and pass 1 left turn (The controls are hard to stay straight).  Continue only a little ways further.  There is an orange flag on a pole on the right.  Stop just after you pass it.  Look back at that pole.  There is a red circle on a white square on the pole.  The bear is in the middle.   Orient yourself so that you are facing the side of the tall, black moving truck. Turn against the flow of traffic and head straight until the intersection. Turn left and travel against traffic until the next intersection. Take another left.  Move against the flow of traffic until the scaffolding on the right side ends. Touch down is above the scaffolding and in the center of the solitary white sign which is placed on the green veranda. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  You should see a large guitar up ahead on your right.  At the intersection right in front of you, turn right.
Go down to the next intersection that has some orange and white barriers on the sidewalk near you.  Turn right here.

Go forward and you should soon see a black and pink awning to your left.  Slighting behind that is a neon outline of a woman.  Touchdown is sitting on her butt. Turn so you're facing the intersection that is very close to you.  Move forward into the intersection and turn right.  Go down the block to the first intersection you come to, and turn right again.  This is a short block, with a grocery market along the right side.  Go to the end of this block and turn right at the intersection.  A  short way along this new block, you'll have orange and white construction barriers on your left.  Keep going until you are almost at the end of all of the orange and white barriers - so you're even with the last panel of the green construction fence.  There's a diamond-shaped cutout in the green construction fence right in front of you. That's where the bear is. Turn so the blue construction poles are on your right and you are moving with the flow of traffic.  Follow this road and it will join in.  Go right very briefly and turn left right away. The tan building with windows should be on your right now.  Continue down this road, passing one intersection.  Turn left when you reach the next intersection.  There will be a tan building with a green awning sticking out on the left now.  Follow this road, watching for a road on the right.  Stop when you reach that road.  On the corner of that road is a red brick building and the bottom is painted brown.  There are two triangles over the doors of the building.  Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the larger one, right on the oval. Go with the flow of traffic.  Heads up that you'll just be going straight, but you'll be going for quite a ways.  Go through three intersections and then slow down.  Watch for a big pink and white sign on your left at the entrance to a parking lot.  Pass this sign and immediately stop.  Turn slightly to your right and look down.  There's a black hydrant with a silver top on the sidewalk between two poles.  Touchdown is atop that hydrant.   Go in the same direction as traffic.  There will be a orange sign with black lettering on your right.  Move forward to the first intersection.  Turn right.  There will be a blue flag with a white eagle on it on your right.  Proceed forward.  Go through the first stoplight you come to.  Continue on to the second.  Stop in the middle of that second intersection.  There will be some red and white umbrellas over a streetcart just ahead of you to your left.  Touchdown is sitting on the peak of the one nearest to you.   Align yourself with the flow of traffic, with the scaffolding on your left. Head down to the intersection, and make a right. You should pass a small amount of scaffolding on your left, and go just passed that, to see a red door. Touchdown is sitting at the entrance of the ramp to this door. Turn until the police cars are in front of you and go straight down that road. The store with the red banner should be on your right. Keep going straight past the first intersection and keep going past the food cart on your right and then the scaffolding. Keep going until you hit the end of the street. At the end of the street look forward and up a little. There's a billboard that looks like a target. The bear is in the middle of the billboard. Follow traffic through the first light and go right at the second. Take the next possible right.   Go through the first light and just slightly past the crosswalk at the next, where the stores on both corners have red sign bands.  Ahead to your right are plain concrete k-walls with green scaffolding behind them. 

To the left side of the road ahead of you is a small half oval concrete island, with what may be a trash can between two white bollards with twin grey stripes.

Touchdown is impaled on the closest bollard to you. From your starting point, turn so that the hotel with the green awning is on your right.  Follow the bicycle down this road.  It will be quite a long distance, but stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to. In the intersection, turn around to your right so that you see a black trash can on your right and a white truck with blue stripes on your left.  Now walk forward down this three-lane road and stop in the middle of the next intersection you come to.  Now turn to your right so that you see a small white car and a bicycle on the right side of the single-lane road.  Take one step forward into this road.  The white car will disappear, but you should see a small beige sedan on the right side of the street and three people in dark coats waiting on the left side.  If you see this car and these people, go forward one more step.  You should see Touchdown on top of sleek white car on the right side of the street Orient yourself to be moving in the same direction as traffic.  at the intersection, turn right.  Move forward a short distance and turn right again at the next intersection.  As you turn right, you should see a mail box and a black fire hydrant on the left side of the street.  Go down the street a bit and on your right you should see a ramp up leading up to a doorway along the side of the shiny grey wall.  Touchdown bear is at the start of the ramp where the grey ramp touches the sidewalk. walk down the street with the flow of traffic,you will pass a building painted red on your right.Go just a little past that building by 2 other buildings. On your right there is another building with the entrance door painted red.Touchdown is in front of that building outside the black gate he is sitting on the crack or seam in the sidewalk directly in front of the fence. Move with traffic, go to the 1st intersection and take a right. There is a playground on the left,go to the next intersection and take a right. there is a tan brick building on your right and trees lining the street on the left. You will pass scaffolding on the right, then an entrance to a parking garage on the left. Just at this next intersection on the left is a fire hydrant, the bear is on top of it Move with the flow of traffic, passing the blue awning to your left. At the first intersection that you reach, turn right and you will pass red awnings and then purple awnings on the right. Now you need to move all the way down this long block until you are almost at the next intersection. Just before it, there is a red post on your right, just after a fire hydrant. Touchdown is on top of the red post. Orient yourself in the direction of traffic, going in the direction of the bridge in the distance. Stay on the road. There is a building to the left with a row of circles on the first floor. Touchdown is in front of the first circle. Orient yourself so that you are headed down the one way street following traffice and the corner store with orange, green and red stripes on the store sign is on your left.  This is a pretty long, block, go all the way till the end of the block and turn left (there will be traffic lights).  Move forward with traffic for one block and stop in the intersection.  On the corner with the empty lot (no building, just green fencing around empty space, there is a green trash can.  Touchdown bear is on the sidewalk in front of the trashcan. Go down the street you are on there is a building that is yellow on your right side go down for one block turn left at the traffic light. Go with the flow of traffic to the first street and turn left Go past the first street on your left.Touchdown is sitting in front of the man door next to the overhead door on the right Follow traffic to the light with hedges to either side and go right at the light.  Follow traffic on to the main highway, with the concrete barrier to your right.  Stop just before going under the bridge, so you can rotate to your left, and have the pillars on your right.  Do so.

There is a grey door straight ahead on the wall. Touchdown is center atop the door, not the concrete around it. Turn towards the stop sign and the intersection. Go take a left on that intersection. Go straightish, make sure you get the left road when it splits, go past the T-intersection. Go straight ahead until you reach an intersection right after a building with a rainbow banner on it. Now take a left here, again make sure you get the left road when the road splits. Go straight until you find the next four way intersection, then turn left. On your left, you'll see a stately building with marble columns and red doors. Go towards it, Touchdown is in front of the front door, between the two columns. Orient yourself so you are facing down the street with the building with a blue awning on the right, continue straight past the intersection, continue past the school buses on the right, continue past the intersection past the past the double length bus,  go forward until you can make a left turn, continue straight until you pass the red car on the right, continue until you see the blue buses on the right, go forward and click the arrow to move towards the blue buses, you should now see a white bus directly in front of you, go forward once, now turn right so you can see the rearmost wheel of the white bus and click directly in the center of the hub cap Turn so you are facing the crosswalk with a orange and white construction barrier on the left and a large white delivery truck on your right. Move slightly towards the right then forward into this street with. There should be construction barriers on your left and parked cars on your right. Keep moving forward to the first intersection and take a right. Move straight to the next intersection and take a right. There should be a black trashcan on your left and a building on your right with a stair case with flowers and pumpkins on it. Touchdown is on the bottom step of the stairs. .  Follow the flow of traffic so that the coffee shop is on your right. Turn right at the intersection.Turn right again when you get to the next intersection. Keep going straight and you should pass a park on your left.After the park ends there will be scaffolding on your left and then an intersection. The touchdown is the grey emblem across the street and to your right.  With the big cage to your right, go straight and bear right. Go straight past large buildings to your left and take a right at the first intersection. Go straight and you should eventually approach another light with steel plates in front of it. Stop well before the plates. There is a blue awning between green and yellow awnings. Touchdown is in top of the middle of it. Go forward with the way you're aligned, then the green and white building with the giant billboard above it should be on your right, and you should be heading down a road with a cement mixer on it.

Head past the first intersection, and fight through the next one to make a left, then another immediate left, making a u-turn. Again ignore the first intersection, and as you approach the second, you should see some black trash bags on your right with a subway entrance behind them. Touchdown is on the rightmost trash back, below the pole. Move down the street with construction scaffolding on the left, and a gray wall barrier on the right. At the intersection, turn right and move forward, where the construction barriers are now on the right and a median of trees on the left. Continue past the big tan windowed building on the right. Continue to a main intersection and turn right. There are black canopies on the left, and touchdown is on top of one of them. Go into the intersection that is very near to the starting point. There is a hot dog cart to your right at the intersection. Turn right. A gas station will now be on your left side after you turn and a fenced in parking lot is to the right. Go almost to the next intersection and turn right the first opportunity you get. It's not quite to the intersection. You will now be headed down a one lane road with orange barriers to the right side. When you are almost to the overpass that is ahead and almost to the end of the orange barriers come to a stop. Touchdown is on top of the corner of the orange barrier. Turn around and align yourself so that the glass building is on your right. At the intersection ahead, make a right, then another right at the next intersection. You'll go straight through a small intersection, then make a left at the next. This last turn should put you exactly where you want to be after you turn. Take another step and you should see a silver tipped hydrant on your left. Touchdown is sitting on top of the hydrant. Turn towards the intersection and turn left at it.  You will now have scaffolding on the right.  Head forward for a while, passing through two intersections.  Heading towards the third, you will see some orange netting around a green portable toilet on the right.  At the intersection ahead, turn left down a one-way street.  You will immediately notice a green awning jutting out on the left.  You will pass a door way with a black iron overhang.  Stop just past it next to the ornate stone overhang above a door at the end of the brick building.  Touchdown is on the head sculpture in the middle. Go with traffic down the one way. Turn right at the first intersection.  Enter the next intersection and turn right and stop by orange and white traffic barrel with caution tape on the corner. There is a traffic cone next the the barrel. Touchdown is sitting on top of the traffic cone. Keep the cars on your right and turn left at the intersection.  Then turn left again at the next.  Continue into oncoming traffic, but then veer right to get back on the right side.  Stay straight.  Turn left after the green/grey building on your right.  Take a couple steps across the intersection and look right.  There is a blue mailbox. The bear is on the top middle. Align yourself so the stone building is on your right, and the traffic is on your left. You're going to head straight the whole time. Shortly after the chance to make a third left turn, you should see a single orange barricade next to a traffic cone, you'll be real close at this point. You'll pass through one more left, and then a right shortly after. Take a single right step and you'll find a traffic cone sitting in the corner of the building to your left. Touchdown is sitting on the tip of the traffic cone. Orient yourself so the empty rental bicycle racks are on your left and you are travelling the same way as the traffic.  Begin walking forward.  Green plywood awnings supported by scaffolding will begin on your right.  After they end, be on the lookout for a yellow and green banner with a blue stripe hanging from a lamp post.  The touchdown is on the bulb of that lamppost.  Turn so there are several yellow square signs ahead of you.Take a left at the fork.Go down the street and take a left at the first intersection you come to. There will be a fork in the road immediately. Go down the left side. Go straight about two blocks. Stop in the middle of the next lighted intersection. Turn so you can see the cream colored building with red doors and large white columns in front of it. On the sidewalk ahead of you there is a red square painted. Touchdown is in the middle of this red square.  Orient yourself with traffic and proceed pass a parking garage entrance on the right and then pass a pair of ladder on scaffolding. Turn left, just before a piece of HOPE art. Go to the next intersection, passing an awning on the left lit with lights and decorated with greenery, and then turn left. Continue driving and pass a blue food truck on the right. You'll encounter a pair of stop signs outside a parking garage. Continue through them. Pass a business on the left with a black awning and gold lettering. Stop when even with a gap in the public bike racks. Touchdown is centered on the gridded square in this gap. Orient yourself so you are moving against the flow of traffic (Face the arrows coming at you).

Go down to the intersection and take the slight turn arrows to the right to get onto the correct side of the road (do not turn down a side street).

Once you're there, continue straight down this road and stop in the next intersection.

On your right is 2 large orange and white barrier cones.  Touchdown is on the one with duct tape. Turn to face the flow of traffic. At the first intersection take a left. Go up the block, and go straight through the next intersection you come to. On the left you should see a glass building with blue around the large glass windows. Go passed that building and stop in front of the revolving doors on the next building. It has a glass front with stone accents. 

Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant which is to the left of the door close to the street.  Turn so you'll be walking in the same direction as the traffic goes on this one-way street.  Move forward until you reach an intersection, and turn left.  Go one short block to the  next intersection, and turn left again.  Partway down this block you'll come to a small intersection that has a stop sign (it's not a true intersection, as it is pedestrian only to your right and left).  Stop in the middle of this little intersection.  On your left, a short distance down the pedestrian-only walkway there is a wooden bench.  The bear is on the edge of this bench closest to you (sitting on the bench). Follow the traffic into the intersection. There is a store with yellow/blue and white letters on your right. Turn right at this intersection. Once you made the turn, go to the next intersection, scaffolding will be on your right. Turn right here. Now scaffolding will still be on your right side. The park will be on your left. Go straight. Right before you reach the scaffolding on the right side of the road  there is a white building on the right side of the road. There is a sign on the right side window of that white building. Top part of the sign is blue background with white letters. lower half of the sign is white background with black letters. The touchdown is in the middle of the blue part of the sign.  Turn to where you're going with the traffic. Go straight past the first intersection and keep going past the second intersection. Turn left at the third intersection. O this street you should see a white van to the right. Keep going straight and turn left again at the next intersection. Now going forward just a little and you should see a building with a bunch of lights sticking out. The bear is right in the middle of the doorway to that building. Orient yourself until the building with lime green is in front of you to your right. Go straight until you reach in intersection with green awnings to your left. Take a left. Touchdown is in front of a tiger image to your right. From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  There should be a small turquoise sign on your right, and a gray/silver canopy on your left.

Walk down this street until you come to an intersection.  
Take a left at the intersection, and walk down another narrow street, between a yellow and red storefront on the right and a brown awning on the left.  

Walk a short distance to the next intersection.  
Take a left at this intersection, and walk down the street between a red stone building on the right and a light brown stone building, with lighter colored horizontal stripes, on the left.  

Walk down this street, and pass a large silver trailer parked on the right, and then a long row of blue bicycles on the left.  Keep moving forward, but just before you come to the crosswalk, stop and look around.  

Just ahead of you, on the sidewalk to your right is a table with a black tablecloth, and the backs of some framed pictures are visible.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the picture that is mounted higher than the others.  Go with the flow of traffic to the first intersection and turn right. 

Still with traffic flow, go through the first intersection but turn right at the second.

When you turn, there is  a pay phone on the right side that Touchdown is sitting on top of. Align yourself to that the building with the blue awning is on your right, with the flow of traffic up ahead. You'll have to make a step left and then go forward down the street. At the next intersection, take a right. You should see 3 red cars in front of you. Go down to the next intersection and make a right. At the next intersection, You should see a golden wheel on your left, cornered on a building. Touchdown is in the middle of the wheel. Follow traffic, with the k-walls to your right, and go through the next three lights. Stop when you're at the first door of the white building with arches. It'll be brown, while the subsequent ones are red. Rotate right to face it.

Touchdown is center atop the blue mailbox directly in front of you. Begin moving with the flow of traffic. Up ahead you'll see a bright pink billboard on a building on the left and there will be smoke blowing out of a tall orange and white barrier on your right. Move straight towards both of them.

You'll pass that point and arrive at a busy intersection with a lot of billboards in front of you.Go straight through this intersection. There will be food vendors on both sides of the street right after the crosswalk. Focus on the one on the right. Next to it, you'll see a red folding chair beside a fire hydrant. Touchdown is sitting on the red chair.  Move forward so you are in the center of that immediate intersection. Then you'll turn to follow traffic out onto the small street. As you leave the first intersection, you'll pass several green awnings on your left and a white/orange/blue awning on your right.

Continue until you reach an intersection, and turn right. Just before the next intersection, face right and there is a green trash can. Touchdown is on top of it. Turn so that the brick building with the blue trim is to your right. Walk ahead. Go left at the upcoming intersection. Go left at the V, left at the intersection you come to next. You are on the wrong side of the road. Keep going, passing the middle street divider full of plants and weeds on your right. Keep straight ahead to the next intersection, stopping before the crosswalk. Turning to look left, see 2 green posts with green balls on top of them. Touchdown is on top of the ball on the right.  From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  Now take a long straight walk down the street until you are in the middle of an intersection.  In front of you, you should see a young woman dressed all in black, carrying a black purse, in the middle of a small crowd in the crosswalk.  If you see her, you are in the right place.  From here, turn to your left, so that you see a big white truck, unloading on the left side and also a man in a light-blue t-shirt with some suitcases on your left.  Walk down this road, past the white truck, and stop when you have just passed a row of orange barrels on the right.  You should see a white suv with blue lettering in front of you.  The traffic light up ahead should have a green arrow, and that arrow is pointing right towards Touchdown the Bear.  If you can see the green arrow but not the bear, just take one more step forward.  

Thanks for playing Turn to the green bike lane is on your left side.  Move forward until you reach an intersection, and turn left. Now you'll have some sort of sport courts on your left side and a ramp along a brick wall to your right.  
Go forward one very short block to the light, and turn left again.  The sports courts are on your left here, and there are shops on your right.  Move forward and stop just before you're even with the big green dumpster on your right.  The bear is on top of the corner of the dumpster closest to you.
 From your starting point, please turn around so that the intersection is behind you.  There should be a modern-art sculpture on your right and a white van parked on your left.  

Start walking forward, and you should pass a vertical red sign and some blue-striped ambulances on your left.  Walk over a crosswalk, and stop in the middle of the intersection.  

Turn to your right.  You should be facing the same direction as some cars on your street.  There will be two bicycles parked on your right, and some orange construction barrels on your left.  

Move forward, and walk into the intersection.  For now, just take a couple more steps forward, further into the intersection.  You should be facing a street that has a green construction wall.  If you turn and look to your right, you should be able to walk down a one-lane road with a brick-walled shop with a red sign on the right side, and some orange and white plastic barriers on the left.  Walk down this narrow street, between the shop and the barriers.  You should see white numbers and letters painted on the street in front of you.

Walk straight down this narrow street, and go straight through the first intersection you come to, so that you pass a black fire hydrant with a silver cap on your right as you come out the other side. 

Keep moving straight for a little bit longer.  You will pass some more white letters painted on the road, and then step over a bump in the road, with white paint on it.  

Walk past the bump, and then look to your left.  You should see another black fire hydrant with silver cap.  There will be also be a tree with some red-leafed plants at its base.  

Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant. Follow traffic into the light and right.  Go through the next light and take a right at the second one.  The right corner shop will have a huge yellow sign band with red glyphs. 

Go into the middle of the next intersection and stop.

Touchdown is on the hydrant between two silver pipes ahead and to the right. Turn so that you are facing the intersection closest to you, and scaffolding  to your left side.
At this intersection Immediately make a right turn.
There will be no more turns this route, so continue straight along this long one way street. 
At the traffic light , proceed into the middle of the intersection and stop.

Slightly to the right there is a small median with some plants growing in it and a green trash can on it .

Touchdown is sitting atop the trash can.


 Turn so the orange and black tiger striped bldg is ahead on your left. Go left at this intersection. Look for a two toned brick building half way down the street on your right, top is red and bottom is white. Go past it and stop next to a brown and red building on the left. Face it. Touchdown is in the middle of the white sign at the top of the steps on the left of the building.  Turn so you are traveling down the one-way street correctly. At the first intersection, turn left There will be a blue and white building on the left side of the road. Continue down the street turning left at the next intersection you come to. Go straight through the first intersection. On the right side, there will be a flat metal awning over the sidewalk with four planters and light branches sticking up out of them. The store past that awning has two bronze framed doors.The touchdown is on top of the long handles of the double doors. Orient yourself so that you are going with the flow of traffic.  There will be a white block building on your right.  Go to the first intersection; turn left.  There will now a brown and off-white striped building on your right.  
Go to the next intersection and turn left again.  Go down this long street, watching for a bright red building with lots of arches on your right.  There will be orange construction barriers across from it.  Pass this, but slow down.  Look for some scaffolding on your right.  Pass this as well, then stop immediately.  
Look ahead and slightly up.  There is a red rectangular flag on the light pole.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this flag.   Orient yourself so that there is a building with huge letters in the windows to your left. Go straight and make a left at the first intersection. About a block away at the next intersection, make another left. Keep going straight past the next intersection. There will be a store on the left with what looks to be two bright red decorative vases out front. The touchdown is sitting in the middle of these vases on the ground. Orient yourself with traffic on the one way street and proceed into the intersection. Turn right at the intersection. At the next intersection, turn right again. You'll first switch views and enter into a different lane traveling toward traffic into a tunnel. Use the left arrow when available to get back onto the one way street you wanted to turn right onto. Continue with traffic down the tree lined one-way street. At the end of the block, enter the intersection but do not proceed through it. On the far left corner there is a restaurant with outdoor seating and green umbrellas. Touchdown is on top of the middle umbrella. Go with traffic. Go straight at the first intersection.  Turn left at the next intersection. Orange road barriers will be on the left. Turn left again at the next intersection. Pass the two open parking entrances to left and stop just behind the green mail box to the left after the parking entrances. There is an open door with yellow numbers on it to the left. Touchdown is sitting on the light above the open doors. Orient yourself so that the awning with a bunch of little lights is on your left, and a white van is on your right. Go straight to the first intersection (t-shaped) and make a right. 

Follow the traffic to the next intersection and turn right at the stop sign.

There is now a mail truck in front of you..Go straight to the next intersection and turn right.

there will be a bunch of potted plants to your left and a green mailbox to your right. Go straight. Stop right before the next intersection. (You have almost made a full circle)

On the right on one of the windows there are two painted pumpkins. The touchdown is on the left pumpkin


 Look towards the flow of traffic and go straight. Take a right at the intersection. There should be a red truck parked to your right. Move forward. Go straight past the three way intersection and stop in the middle of the next intersection. To your right there should be scooters parked to your right. Touchdown is sitting on the seat of the scooter in the front.   Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and all the trashbags on the ground are on your right.
Go forward and turn right at the next intersection.
You should see scaffolding on your right and a blue tarp ahead hanging from it.
Turn right at the next intersection as the scaffolding wraps around the building.
Move forward and turn right at the next intersection and you'll have two red awnings on your right followed by more scaffolding.
Head forward into the next intersection and you should see an orange barrier on the other side on the right.  Touchdown is on the orange barrier.
 Move with the flow of traffic towards the close intersection. Pass straight through it and continue until the next intersection, just past a red awning on the left. Turn left here. Move to the next intersection and turn left again. Now pass the gold neon letters on a store on your right. At the next intersection, take another left. Move ahead on the narrow road until on your right is a gray post with a blue stripe. Touchdown is on top of the post. You are on a one way road, go with the flow of traffic to the nearby intersection and then make a left, you will have construction on both sides. Go straight through the first intersection (which you can not turn at) and then at the second intersection you will stop in the middle of it. Ahead to the right is a glass building with three silver barrel trashcans on the corner and ahead to the left is a cement wall and a single trashcan on the corner. Touchdown is in the center opening of the single trashcan on the corner to the left.  Stand so that the green and yellow awnings above a red door are on your right. Move ahead, going straight through two intersections, under the bridge, and then straight through another intersection with 2 opportunities to turn 4 ways. Then on your left are 2 playgrounds. Stop in the middle of the second, which has red slides.  Face the playground, and touchdown is in the center of the bench in the playground, in between the green and white portions of the bench. Turn and follow the flow of traffic.  Take your first right, then take the next right. Travel down this road for a while.   Pass trash on your right.  Stop in front of first red door on the right. The bear is on the camera above the red door. Orient yourself so that the monument is to your left. Go straight and take a left, curving around the monument. Go straight until almost at an intersection with orange barrels to the right. There is a waste receptacle to the right. Touchdown is on top of it. Turn and go in same direction as traffic. Turn right at the intersection in front of you. Turn right at the next intersection. To the right is a tan building with a green awning. Go straight at intersection. Orange and white barricades to the right with some fencing and green tarps. Stop when you get close to the green awning on the right. Touchdown is sitting on top of the little tree to the right up against the building by the window.  follow the direction of traffic to the 2nd intersection. You are at the right place when you see the bank with blue banner and white Chinese characters on your right and green awning to your left. Turn right at this intersection. When you reach the next intersection where the Chinese style building with many red poles is on your right, then you are at the right intersection. Turn right here so that Chinese style building is on your left now. Go forward. Stop at the middle of the next intersection, look to your right, you will see a big yellow sign on your right and black writing and a black arrow. The touchdown is on the arrow.  With the park to your left, go to the corner and turn left. 

Go to the next corner, which is a 3-way, and turn right. When you turn there is a brick building with arched windows to your left. 

Go down this road, through the first intersection, but take a right at the second. When you turn there are bright blue awnings to your right. Go a very short distance but not beyond this store. Turn to face that store and directly in front of you is a hydrant that Touchdown is sitting on top of.  Go against the flow of traffic to the first light and take a right turn. You'll be going with the flow of traffic now. Go straight through the next stop light.  The logo of the business to your right has four different color squares.  Go to the next light and take a right.  There will be a large red sign on the builidng to your left.  There will be some traffic cones and barrels on your right.  Touchdown will be on top of the lone traffic barrel after the grey news stand on your right. Enter the nearest intersection and go right. The store windows to your right will be mirrors. Go straight through the next two intersections. Work is being done on both sides of this street. Stop a little bit before getting to the next intersection crosswalk. Turn to look at the buildings to your right, you should be just to the left of the green awning on top of metal scaffolding. On the corner of that green awning, affixed to it, is one of the yellow signs with red letters. Touchdown is sitting right in the middle of that sign, covering some of the red letters in the second word.  Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street.  Go forward to the intersection that's just ahead of you and turn left.  You'll have a building on your left with a wall that has a pattern of gray circles on it.  Go forward to the next intersection and make another left.  You'll have a foot cart on your left along with some construction.  Go forward until you're just about at the end of the block.  Stop when you're standing in the crosswalk, but not yet in the intersection.  On the corner to your right there is a phone booth and a silver trash can right in front of it.  Touchdown is on the trash can. Position yourself facing the nearest intersection, crane to tour right.

Turn left here.

Travel straight down this street leaving the scaffolds to your right.

Ignore the T intersection and travel towards the traffic light

Arrive at the traffic light and stop in the middle of the intersection.

Look ahead and see the trash can with the green top.

Touchdown is atop that green topped can.
 If you don't find him right away nudge forward a bit and try again.

 Orient yourself so that on your left side, you see metal scaffolding. Go down the street until you come to an intersection. At the intersection, turn left. You should see some blue poles on the ground on your right side and a large tree on your left. When you come to the next intersection turn left. You should see a white delivery truck unloading a bunch of boxes on your left side. Continue until you come to another intersection. Take another left. You should see a blue mailbox and yellow box on your right side. Go down this road until you are in the middle of the next intersection. On your right you should see a blue van. Touchdown is in the middle of the rear wheel. Orient yourself so a blue building is on your left and proceed. Go through the first intersection. Stop in the far crosswalk of the next intersection. The store to your left has a rainbow umbrella outside. Touchdown is on the red and pink segments near the edge. Turn yourself so that you are going with the flow of traffic. You will see a green awning on your right. Go straight on this road. When you come to the first traffic light, make a right. At the next traffic light you come to, make another right. Be looking on the right side. You will see an orange traffic cone. Touchdown is floating above the traffic cone. It almost looks like he is sitting on top of the yellow pipe. Turn around and go with the flow of traffic. At the second traffic light turn right.At the stop sign turn right, Before you get to the next corner there will be a play area on your right Well there is a  building next to that playground and touchdown is sitting on the ground in the corner of the fence next to the building Go with traffic (though walking against it in the lane you're in) into and through the light.  Go right at the next light.  You're now in the proper lane, with a park on your right, and pink signs along the posts to your right as well.  Go through the next two lights.  Stop when you're slightly before the first green barred window on the brick building on the right.  Rotate left to face the playground.

Touchdown is between the two kids on the small banner hanging on the fence directly in front of you. Orient yourself so that you are facing the close intersection. Move straight through that and at the next intersection, turn left. Now you should have a row of bikes on your right. Move ahead to the next intersection and turn left. Move to the next intersection and turn right. You should have on your left a scaffolding area with a blue border with pictures on the top. Move forward and soon on the right is a green wall. Touchdown is on the orange diamond sign in front of that wall. Turn so you are going with traffic. At the light ahead take a left. Go one block and take a left. Green awning on the right of you. Go straight until you come to a gray concrete barrier on the right. It looks like an empty lot perhaps. In front of that is a mailbox with graffiti and white plastic totes stacked beside it.  Touchdown is sitting on the top of the mailbox.  Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic, and head to the nearest intersection.  You will need to turn left, but not where the navigation will take you.  Look around and find the green and orange mailboxes.  You need to go down that road so that they are on the left.  In the background you will see a building with a tall point straight ahead.  Go through 2 intersections and stop directly in the 3rd.  Look around and find the trash can on your left with a green trash bag in it.  The bear is on the ground in front of it.   Turn with the flow of cars and take your first right.  Then take your next right.  You will now be along a bridge.  Pass the pile of garbage on your right, but stop before the gate opening on your left.  There is an orange construction barrel near the gate opening.  The bear is on top. Turn so the elevated road is on your left. Go forward to the first corner and turn left. Go to the next corner and turn left again. The elevated road is on your left and red brick building on your right. Go down this road, working your way through the first 3-way to continue straight. At the next corner, turn left. Just as you turn, look to your right and see a hydrant with a silver cap between two posts. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant. Follow traffic to the end of the block and go right. At the end of the block, go right again.  You should be on a street with alternating orange and white Jersey walls to your left.  Pass the light and walk until you see the blue building on your right, stopping just before you arrive at it.  Turn right to face the last section of black fencing between brick pillars.  You'll see a green metal barrel in front of the blue wall; touchdown sits on top of it. With the huge pile of trash bags to your left, go straight. Go all the way down this street until dead ends into another.  The street navigation is somewhat tricky here. You have to go straight so that you can be in the furthest lane that was away from you, and turn right.  Touchdown will be in the center of the front wheel of the red bike tied up on your left directly after the crosswalk. Turn and follow with the traffic. A large sidewalk is to the right. Turn right. Tables are to the left. Turn right. Turn left at intersection. Blue and yellow umbrellas to the right. Construction on the left. Scaffolding on the left. Green awning on the right. There is a all glass buildiing on the left before you get to intersection. Look up on building and there is a red white blue flag. Touchdown is at the end of the pole. Align yourself so the dark blue awning sticking out of the building is on your right. Head up to the intersection to make a right, Look for the entrance to the large red brick building that takes up most of the block on your left. Touchdown is at the top of the handle of the stairs at the entrance. Turn and look down the street with the bridge passing overhead. Walk forward. You will pass a 3 way intersection. Ignore it and proceed until you come to the intersection just past the bridge overpass. Turn right.

Keep the green median to your left and walk to the next intersection.

Turn right and walk back under the bridge. As you emerge from under the bridge, look to the right for a yellow sign with black figures on it on the right. Just past the sign, stop. On the left in front of you is an orange and white barrel. Touchdown is on top of the barrel.
 Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  This will put some red doors on your right.  Go down this street.  When you get to the intersection ahead, turn left.  You'll see some scaffolding ahead on the right.

Go straight until you get to the next intersection and turn left again. You should see a red bike on the corner, go past it and down the street.

A bit down the road on the right, you'll see a national flag.  Stop when you're at it, turn right and you'll see a blue mailbox.  Touchdown is under that. Follow the traffic, with the yellow diamond sign to your right, and make a right at the intersection,  down the one way street, another right at the traffic light, down that street and a right at the first traffic light. There will be two yellow diamond sign with red hexagons in them on both sides of you, pass them and stop at the white building with the brown door on your right. Touchdown is on the door handle of those doors. Turn so you are facing the same way as the parked cars. Go straight. When you reach the first intersection, turn right. Shortly after turning, you will come to an intersection that does not have a light. You can only continue straight, turn left into parking for some buildings or turn right. Turn right. There is a store on the corner with a red, white and blue awning. Go straight. Continue down this street, passing trees on both sides. Continue straight, passing a park on your left. Shortly after passing the colorful wall in the park, look to your left at the wooded area with a fence in front of it. Towards the end of this fence, before the building on the corner, you will see the opening in the gate. Just to the left of this opening is a pole with a rectangular sign on it. The sign has a red arrow on it. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of this sign.  Walk down the street in the same direction as traffic. Go left at the first intersection you come to. You should see a person holding a heart painted on a black wall on the right side of the street.   Keep walking ahead. Pass by neon purple lit windows on your right. At the upcoming intersection, go left. Walk past the area for bike parking and turn left at the next intersection. There will be a taller black iron fence along the building to your right. Go to the upcoming intersection but don't go past the white painted lines on the road.  Turn and face the white building on your left and see the fire hydrant with the silver top. Touchdown is sitting right on top of that silver top of the hydrant.   Turn so the blue store window the the large gold circle is on your left.  Go forward to the nearby intersection and turn right.  Now you'll have a small empty lot with chain link fence around it on your right.  Go forward to the next intersection and turn right again.  On this block you'll have a store with arched doorways on your right, and the building on your left will be gray stone and have iron grills over the windows.  The next intersection you come to will be a 5-way intersection.  Facing the intersection, the road splits into a Y in front of you, and you also can make a hard left or hard right turn.  Take the hard right turn, and you'll now have a dark gray building on your left that has a tall red vertical banner.  After the gray building is a bright yellow storefront.  Keep going until you've passed all the construction scaffolding on the right side.  Then look on the left, and you'll see a store that has stairs all along the front that have lights in the risers.  Stop when you're even with the last set of lit-up risers in these steps.  Outside this store there are three potted trees (small topiary style trees).  The bear is on top of the center tree.  Align yourself with the flow of traffic, and head down to the intersection, taking a right. Head down to the next intersection and take another right. 

Follow this all the way down, and take the top left at the intersection. There should be 4 bell shaped black and white cones on the island to the left of you, and a bench to the left of that. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the bench. Turn so you are facing the closest turn then drive straight through that. when you get to then next turn go straight past the yellow bug parked in front of a bus sign.Keep going straight past the store with the reddish burgundy awning.Keep driving towards the bridge.when you get to the dumpsters on the street the touchdown will be sitting in the chair in front. Turn so you are facing oncoming traffic. A red awning followed by a black awning, both with white letters, are on your left. Go to the next corner and turn right. 

When you get to the next intersection, begin into it but stop before you can turn. Look to your left and there is a brown stick-like piece of art in a plaza. Touchdown is on the top of that art piece in the top Y facing closest to you. Go with traffic, through the light, and at the next one, where there's an all grey building on the left corner ahead of you, go right. Go right again at the next light.

When you reach the next light, stop on on the crosswalk before entering it. To your right is a white building, and to your left, a white one with pillars. That one has a maroon flag hanging off it. Touchdown is in the center of the flag. Look for the flowers around the traffic light pole. Go in this direction.
Go straight pass the flowers at the first intersection. A red brick building with a gray stone base will be on your right.
Turn right at the first intersection. The same building will still be on the right. 
Enter the intersection and turn left and stop.
Turn right and look for the double postal mail boxes on the corner. Touchdown is sitting on top of the first postal mail box. Alight yourself to the back of the bright truck with the superhero on it. Go forward a few steps and make the top left turn, this should take you up a small side road.Follow this side road up to the second intersection, and make a right. Seven step up, you'll see an ait conditioner above a grey shop front, above the door, which is to the left of a wooden door entrance on the right of a green store front. Touchdown is in the middle of the air conditioner. Orient yourself so the fence is on your right and the parked cars on your left.  Follow this road to the intersection ahead and turn left.  Travel a short distance down this road and turn left again.  There will be construction on your left here.   Follow traffic down this road, watching for a building that is solid grey brick on your right. The main door of this building has a round green awning above two black doors.  Touchdown is sitting on the white symbol in the middle of that green awning. Go in the direction that keeps you in the tunnel. Keep straight after the end of the tunnel and the street will take you around the corner to the right. Look left and stop slightly pass the black fire hydrant between two yellow poles. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant. Hello there!

1. Make sure that you're going with the flow of traffic. On either side of the street in front of you, there should be two yellow diamond signs with a black arrow above a red octagon.

2. Follow this road for a while, passing through a small three-way intersection. At the first four-way intersection, take a right. A teal and orange-red building should be to your left.

3. Pass through the next intersection. Get as close as possible to the one after that without actually stepping into it.

4. To your left, there should be a lamppost with a small, rectangular, pink sign affixed to it. Touchdown is in the middle of that sign.

Good luck! :) Orient yourself so you can see a three-story building with a red fire escape coming up on your left. Take a left at the intersection so that this same building is now immediately on your right. Move forward and take a right at the next intersection. Keep going until you pass through one last intersection. Just after it, Touchdown is sitting on a black fire escape above a blue sign. Orient yourself so that there is a concrete wall to your right and oncoming traffic to your left. Make a u-turn at the second intersection. Go straight until you get to the second intersection here. You are going to merge left into traffic. The touchdown will be located on your right at the base of the second tree. Go with traffic down the street where the store with the yellow awning with red text is on your right.  Go right at the light.  

Stop mid-way up the block, when on your right there's a gap between the buildings and an opening in the chain-link fence there.  There's a small white placard with some red symbol on the chain-link fence to the right of the right-side pole.

Touchdown, of course, is affixed to that placard. Turn yourself so you are facing in the direction the arrows painted on the street are pointing. Turn right at first, immediate, intersection.  Continue down this street until the next intersection and turn right.  A park should now be on your left.  Continue down this street until the next intersection and turn right. Some construction scaffolding should now be on your left and a bike parking rack on your right. Continue down this street until you see a cement stairway on your left leading into a building.  Touchdown is sitting at the top of the stariway. Begin moving with the flow of traffic so the wall of mirrors and pedestrian path is on your right. Pass straight through the first traffic light where a construction zone is on your left. 

Go straight once again at the next intersection. When you arrive to the following traffic light (third total on this street), move into the middle of the intersection and stop. Ahead on your right, there is a wire trash can with a green bag on the corner. Touchdown is sitting on top of the bin. Orient yourself in the direction of the direction of the patched up brown wall in the distance to the right. Go straight. When at the first light, stop. There is a white vent close to the sidewalk on the building to the right. Touchdown is sitting on top of it. Go in the same direction as traffic.  Move forward to the first intersection.  Turn left.  There will be some white cone-like things dividing the roadway on your right.  Proceed forward to the next stoplight. Turn left again.  There will be a store with a green awning and yellow lettering on your left.  Go forward, stopping just before you reach the intersection.  Stop just before the crosswalk.  Turn to your left.  There is a very large pink letter on the sign on the top of the building to your left.  Touchdown is sitting on the top of this letter, in the middle of the top.  First orient yourself so that the parking lot is on your right and the building with the blue windows is ahead on your left. Continue straight down this road. About 3/4 down you'll see a building with red walls on your left and a building with blue graffiti/painted walls to your right behind a large fence. At the end of the road, bear right. There will be a supermarket on your right at the corner. You'll see a building with a large window right before a building with green awnings on your right. Touchdown will be under the pole with the parking sign directly in front of the window. Go with traffic. Look for the open red and gold door on the right. An American flag is on the same building.
Turn right at the first intersection. A large green awing will be on the left.
Turn right at the next intersection. 
Turn right again at the next intersection. There will be green scaffolding on both sides of the street.
Stop just pass the ending of the green scaffolding on the right and look back.
There is a fire hydrant next to a mail box under the scaffolding. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant.  Orient yourself so that you are in the middle of the intersection with four directions to choose from. Turn so that the big green dumpster is on your right. Go forward in that direction. Turn left at the next intersection. Turn left at the stop signs, then keep going straight. Take a left at the next intersection. Stop as soon as you turn. There will be a pedestrian sign ahead to the right. Touchdown is sitting on top of that sign. face the direction traffic flows so that on your left there is a giant pot of plants. continue down this street until you reach the intersection and turn right. there will be 2 mail boxes on your right as well as two flags hanging off a building that are mostly blue and red in color. continue down this street until you come upon the next intersection. Turn right at this intersection. after you turn right there will be a few mostly blue flags hanging on the right side and a giant green dumpster on the left.. continue down this street. there is a yellow awning on the right side past the dumpster. right past the yellow awning is a white sign with red non English lettering. Touchdown in in the center of the middle letter. Look up a little and turn so the white billboard with the large purple heart is on your left.  Travel forward a very short way and turn right.  There will be a metallic building on your left with yellow accent lights.  Travel down this long road and turn right at the first intersection.  You'll have green construction scaffolding on your left now, travel to the intersection just after that construction ends and stop just across the street on the corner.  Look to the left and there is a digital billboard that is silver with a black screen area and blue/white images on it.  Touchdown is sitting on top of that display on the corner closest to the building with yellow lettering on a red sign. Turn so that you are facing oncoming traffic.  Take the first left that you can (It is a ways down the road).  Pass through the next intersection.  On your left are trailer buildings.  Stop when you pass the green and tan one.  Look left.  There is a portopotty.  There is an orange box on the right of it.  The bear is on the box. Turn so the parked yellow bus is to your left. At the light ahead turn left. Go one block. At the light go straight. Stop about at the midway point in this street when you see a black post on the right sidewalk with a blue stripe around the top. Touchdown is sitting on top of this post. Also there is a small cranberry colored suv parked beside this post.  Go with traffic.
Turn left at the intersection. Green scaffolding and road work are on the right.
Turn left again at the next intersection. Paid parking lot on the left.  Stop when you see bus only in white painted in the red bus lane. There is a large green trash can sitting by itself on the right that should be in front of you. Touchdown is sitting at the sliver opening at the top of the trash can.



 If you are in the correct position should be a red box that holds magazines to your left. Straight ahead are two signs that are white with red circles and write letters. You should be in the middle of an intersection. If you are looking to your right you should see a brick building with air-conditioners and almost all the windows. There is a similar building on the left. They both have black fences going around them.
Head left and now the brick buildings should both be on your right. One is behind you and one is beside you. If you look to your left you'll see another building which has several balconies going up with a food stand in front of it. Head straight on the street. To verify you're going the correct way after a very short distance look to your right and you should see a building with a long gray sign which has the names of several businesses on it. You will be given the option to veer to the left or continue straight you will want veer to the left then to continue straight.
On the left on the corner you will see a store with a gray top with white letters. This is beside a store that has a green awning with white letters. Across the street to the right is a large brick building.
On the left or the building of the grave sign with white letters as you will see orange traffic cone beside the crosswalk. Touchstone is sitting directly in front of the orange traffic cone.  From your starting point, please turn around so that the orange and white construction barriers are on your left.  Walk down this road, go straight through the first intersection you see, and keep walking forward between two lanes that are painted red.  Keep going until you come to an intersection with traffic lights.  

Turn left at this intersection, and walk up this one-way road, in the same direction as traffic, so that the orange and white construction barriers are on your right.  

Keep walking until you come to an intersection.  Turn right at this intersection, step forward onto a narrow lane, against traffic.  There should be a payphone on the left with a blue poster, and a red van parked on the right.  Touchdown will be right on top of the payphone's housing. Move with traffic up to the first intersection and turn left. As you turn there will be a few orange barriers on the right. Move down this street until you reach the next intersection and turn left again, in between sections of white and orange barriers.

Move down the one-way street until the next intersection. It will be just past a store with a lot of red on your right, with a gray building on your left. Stop before entering fully into the intersection. Face straight ahead, and on the corner on the left ahead of you is a skinny dark red awning. Touchdown is in the center of it. follow the traffic, with the scaffolding to your right, and make a left at the first intersection. There will now be two flags up ahead, to your left. make a left at the light and pass the train station on your right. Continue down the one way street and stop at the first traffic light. Touchdown will be on the traffic light on your left. Turn to where you're going with the direction of traffic. Start going straight and keep going straight. You should pass a green bus on the right along the way. Keep going straight ignoring the first left turn after the green bus and turn left on the left turn right after that one. You should turn so you're now going the oppsite direction from when you started. You should now see a yellow and red bus on your right. Keep going straight a little and stop just right in front of the unfinished billboard on your left with the white tarp on it. Look to your right and you should see a rusted fire hydrant right in front of you. The bear is on top of the hydrant. Turn to your right until you see the narrow street with a railing on the right side. 
Go forward to the next intersection.
Turn right. Go forward to the next intersection. It should have stop lights.  
Turn left. There should be a brightly painted store on your right. 
Go forward to the next intersection. There should be a metal fence on your right and a brick wall on your left.
 Turn right. Go a short way down the block until you see a store on your left with a black door with a blue and white figure painted on it. Look at the blue and white figure.  Go down the street with construction scaffolding to your left, tan building with green signage along the top to your right. Keep going down this street with trees to your left. You'll pass more construction scaffolding on the left, then right. At the intersection, turn right. 
Go down this road and at the next intersection is a building across the intersection to the right with a red flag with a yellow circle in the middle of it hanging from the building, as well as a blue flag. Touchdown is in the center of the red and yellow flag in the circle. Align yourself with the green logos on the building to the left, red signs on the scaffolding to the right, make a right at the first intersection and quickly stop. Now you will see the red signed scaffolding on your right and brown building with red doors on your left. Touchdown will be on top of the garbage can on your left by the crosswalk. Turn with the flow of traffic and head to the nearest intersection.  Turn left.  Go through 2 intersections.  Then stop when you are in front of the bus stop on the right.  Look across the street.  There is a fire hydrant with 2 yellow posts.  The bear is on top of the fire hydrant.   There should be orange traffic barrels on your right as you immediately approach a stoplight. Go straight through that stoplight.  Continue straight and go straight through a second stoplight. When you come to the next (third) stoplight, turn left.  Immediately after you turn, you should see a clothing vendor on your left, and a food truck on your right. Go straight until you see another stoplight and turn left. Shortly after you turn, you should see a black fire hydrant with a silver cap beneath a white sign with red letters and a black arrow on your right.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant. Start by positioning yourself in such a way that the white tall irregular building is behind you and then go forward until you reach an intersection. Turn left and keep walking straight, you should have a green lane to your right. Walk until you reach another intersection and turn left again. Keep going straight until you reach a building with scaffolding to your right. Walk till the end of this building and stop. Touchdown is sitting on top of the green hydrant to your left. Go down the street with the tents to your left and the scaffolding on the right.

Take a right at the light and you'll have scaffolding to your right and a grey building with large vertical windows on the left.  Go through the next light.  Go past a blue awning on your right, and then rotate right.

You should be staring at a storefront with three pillars. Touchdown is adhered to the red bell to the right of the leftmost pillar. To verify you are in the correct position there should be a bridge straight ahead that if you go straight you will walk under. To your right is a store which has wedding dresses on the second floor in the window.
Please head straight towards the bridge.
Do not go under the bridge instead make a left turn at the intersection.
Continue straight until you reach the next intersection then turn left.
Stop just before the next intersection on your left you will see several newspaper boxes green red red blue yellow red yellow blue yellow blue. Touchdown is on the first green box. He is directly on top and center.
 Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Turn left at the next intersection.  The building to your left will be boarded up above the black and white signs.  Turn left at the next intersection as well.
You should see scaffolding on your left and You scaffolding ahead on the right.
Stop in the next intersection and you will find Touchdown hiding on a white box across the street that is attached to the large green pole on the right below the street lamps. Turn with the flow of cars and head to the nearest intersection.  Turn right, then take the next right.  There are two flags on the wall to the right, pass those and continue forward.  On the left there is a building with archways.  Stop right after you pass them.  Look left and back towards the archways.  There is an orange light on the top right of the arch.  The bear is on the light.   From your starting point, turn around so that you are looking a narrow street.  There should be a yellow sign with red characters and blue letters on the left of this street, and a red brick building with beige letters on the right.  Walk down the street between these two buildings. 

Just keep moving straight down this street, and pass some scaffolding on your right, then just go straight through the first intersection you come to.  On the other side of the intersection, the store with the gold characters and letters should still be on your right.

Keep walking straight, past a store with yellow and pink balloons.  You will need to sidestep to your right in order to keep moving forward, but you should still see the reddish-brown storefront with yellow letters on your right as you do so.  Then just keep moving forward until you come to another intersection.  

Turn left at this intersection, and walk down a narrow lane.  On your left should be a silver store sign with blue characters and red letters.  On your right should be a white store sign with red characters and red walls.  Walk between these two shops, then keep moving forward.  

After you pass a shop on your right that has a blue sign with red characters, just go straight through the small three-way intersection.  On the other side, move forward towards a store with a pink sign and large white letters.

When you get close to that store, you will be able to see a section of pink picket fencing with white tips.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this fence section, right in the middle.  Orient yourself with traffic and proceed. Turn right at the first intersection, then turn right at the next intersection as well. Follow this road and stop when you past the green scaffolding on the right, which is across from a theater. The theater, has three sets of gold double doors. Touchdown is on the handles of the center pair of doors. Go with traffic down the one way. Go straight at the left turn only. Turn left at the double stop signs. Go straight at the right turn only. A fruit market will be on the right side corner. Turn right at the next intersection. The fruit market will still be on your right side. Stop just before the green scaffolding to your right. There is a blue  bus stop signs next to the scaffolding. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the round blue part of the sign. Go with the flow of traffic to the first intersection and take a right turn. You'll have scaffolding on your left.  Go straight through the next intersection and take a right turn at the one after.  There will be some traffic cones on the left ahead.  Touchdown will be on top of the first cone closest to the curb. From your starting point, please turn around so that the bridge is behind you, and you can see a white chain-link fence on your left and a small concrete wall on your right.  Walk over a crosswalk and down the road between the fence and this short wall.  You should be able to see a parking lot for buses behind that fence on the left as you pass.  After you have passed that lot, just keep walking up this road until you come to an intersection.

Turn to your right at this large intersection.  You should now be walking down a wide one-way street that has a red store sign with white lettering on your left, and a metal shutter on your right with a yellow border.  Walk down this road until you come to another intersection.  

Turn to your right at this intersection, and start walking down a narrow lane with trucks parked on both sides.  You should see white bordered-windows below dark gray awnings on your right as you enter this street.  Just keep walking straight for a while, passing between buses parked on both sides of the street.  

After a little while, you should be able to see a light brown/orange wall on your right, that has a blue/turquoise half-moon shape painted on it.  You are almost at the goal.  Just go forward a bit until you are first able to see an open gate on your right, with a parking lot for buses underneath a bridge.  You are now in the right spot to find the bear, so look back to that turquoise shape on the wall.  There is a small white sign with black lettering on a pole just in front of it.  Touchdown is sitting right on top of this sign. Follow traffic. You see a school bus.
Keep straight.
Stop right before the intersection, next to a black car.
There is a yellow newspaper machine on the corner next to the stop sign.
Touchdown is on top of the yellow newspaper machine.

 Rotate so you are moving with traffic, scaffolding ahead on both sides, and travel ahead to the first corner just ahead and Turn Right.

There is now a brick building with green awnings and signs to your right side.
Continue straight ahead, move through the traffic light and stop once you are to the crosswalk on the far side of the intersection.
To your right side there is a green trash can sitting on the corner, Touchdown is sitting on op of this trash can. Orient yourself so you are facing the same way as the traffic.  There will be an orange restaurant with fake palm trees with lights by the door on your left.  Walk down to the end of the street and turn left.  Walk to the next intersection and turn left again.  Begin walking down this road.  Pass the very tall glass and grey building on your right.  Pass the newsstand with the bright pink sign on your left.  On your right after the newsstand will be a store that has a big grey sign over it's door, with white and blue letters.  The entrance is set back from the road.  The bear is sitting direction in the middle center of blue part of the sign. You are on a one way road, go with the flow of traffic. Go to the next intersection, make a right, stop on the crosswalk and turn around and go straight through the intersection. The corner store on your left will have a red store front and on you right will be a grey square pole with a blue stripe at the top, continue straight. Go straight through the next intersection. The store on the left will have pink with white signage. You will soon see on the right a fire hydrant between two short poles, stop just after passing this fire hydrant. Turn to your right and you should be standing between the fire hydrant and a silver three seat bench looking at scaffolding. Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant.  Head in the direction of traffic. Take a right at the intersection. Go straight until you reach the next intersection, then turn right. Keep going until you pass the American flags. Stop when you reach the orange ladder. Touchdown is sitting on top of the orange cone next to the orange ladder. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  Red awnings should be on your right and bright green banners on the left.
Head forward past some construction on the left.
You should see scaffolding on both sides as you move down this street.
Keep moving forward, through the intersection ahead.  You will pass a green awning jutting out on the right.  As you approach the scaffolding ahead on the left, stop right at the corner of it as you get to it.  Just in front of it is a green banner hanging on a pole where you will find Touchdown on the symbol. Follow traffic direction till you reach the intersection. Turn left.
When you reach the next intersection with grey awning on the right side of the road, turn left at this intersection. You will see a delivery truck with purple/orange letters on the back of it in front of you. follow it and pass the first section of the construction on your left. You will also pass some street food vender on the right side. Right before the second instruction starts, you can see there is a navy color truck with white back door parked on the right side of the street. when you reach the truck, look at your left, you will see a door with American flag on it. The touch down is on the blue/white section on the flag.  Position yourself so the rotating glass door is on your right and the green, red, orange, and white sign is on a business to your left.

When you get to the first intersection, turn left. After you turn, a narrow red lane will be in the street on your right and a food vendor with a white canopy will be on your left. Go straight through the first traffic light and turn left at the second one.

Up ahead, there's a fenced in parking lot on your right. Walk past that and there's a traffic cone on your right. After that, there are five trash bins on your right in front of a gray brick building. Just past that turn and look at the left. There's a small white and red sign on a pole. Touchdown is placed right on the sign.  Position yourself so the brown building with large bowling pins on the side is on your right. A traffic light will be behind you. Continue straight until you get to the first intersection and turn right. After you turn, you'll see business on your right with a snow scene painted on the windows. There's evergreen trees and a sled on a snowy path.

Take just a few steps forward and you'll see bike stands on your right with a couple bikes there. Touchdown is sitting on the seat of the first bicycle.  From the beginning position, turn left so that you are facing in the direction that you have green scaffolding on your right, and a white-sided brick building with an advertisement featuring a female on your left.  This will be opposite of the nearest intersection.  Move a short way down the street until you get to a street light. At the light, turn right but don't really move down the street at all. It will look like you'll be moving the wrong way down a one-way street. On the corner to your right will be a restaurant with a red awning. Touchdown is on the front door of that restaurant. Turn so the fenced in area is behind you and you're facing down a one way street. Follow that and turn left as the first intersection you're able to. You'll be walking down a street with a fenced in area containing benches with blue seats on your left. Stay on this street and walk until you reach a T-intersection. You will see a flag pole on your left. The touchdown is at the base where the metal pole intersects the round concrete footer. Turn so the store with the closed security gate is on your right and you're walking with the flow of traffic.  Go forward until you reach an intersection and turn right.  Now you'l have a little restaurant with a bench outside and a stonework wall below the windows.  Go straight through the first intersection you come to, and at the second one turn right (this is a big intersection - turn right the first chance you get here, before you reach the median strip).  Now you'll have the green-painted bike lane on your left.  Go forward.  You'll approach a three way intersection where you can turn right, and there are red benches in the area to the left (in the median strip area).  Stop just before you actually step into the crosswalk of this intersection.  On the corner to your right is a trash can.  The bear is on top of the trash can. turn so you are going with traffic. There will be an orange construction fence ahead on the right. Go about a block and take a left. Go straight at the light up ahead. Stop when you are beside the cab of the yellow food truck. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant ahead of that and beside the white emergency vehicle.  Follow the cars and turn left at the intersection. Turn left again at the next intersection. Stop immediately after you pass the sign that says no standing. There are two arrows painted on the road ahead of you. Touchdown is in the center of the arrow in the left lane. Orient yourself so that the bank is on your right and the green scaffolding is on your left and go forward. Turn right at the first intersection and go straight. Turn right at the next intersection and then you will see a tan van on your left facing you. The touchdown is on the headlight closest to the center of the street (your right).  With the large two-story bridge ahead, go straight and take a right. There should be a caged yard to the right. Go straight through the intersection with small metal fences in the middle. Take a right when you meet a crostraightroads. Go straight until you reach a bus stop and turn around. Go straight and take a left at the intersection, before going under the bridge. There is an area to the left with bushes. There is a short post in the bushes. Touchdown is sitting on it. When you being moving, the water will be on your left. You're going to stay straight on this road. Shortly before you reach the first bridge, you'll see a tall white building on your right with a lot of balconies. On the side of the road, just before that building is a green street sign on a pole next to the cement barrier on your right. Touchdown is in the middle of that street sign.  Position yourself where you should notice a black fire hydrant on your left and a traffic light up ahead near a beige building on your right. Once you arrive at the traffic light make a left turn and pass the staircase with the American flag hanging on it on your right hand side.. You should notice an air conditioner next to the staircase with the american flag. The touchdown is on top of the air conditioner. Step into the nearest intersection and go in between the building with red door, that looks like a church on the left and the red awing on the other side of the street. You will see a orange cone on top of a gold car in this direction. Keep straight and enter the next intersection and stop. Look back behind you for the black and sliver fire hydrant by the red awing. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant. From your starting point, please turn around so that the tunnel supports are on your left, and you can see silver elevator-style doors on your right.  Walk forward, and out into the daylight.  Keep walking forward, and pass the four stone cylinders on your left.  Turn to your right after you pass.  You won't need to do anything here, as the road just curves around on its own, but try to orient yourself so that you see the glass wall on your right and the parked cars on your left.  Just keep moving forward.  

You will soon see the end of the wall on your left, and will pass between two red, hexagon-shaped signs.  Just keep going straight a bit further.  Pass some glass doors on your right, and then some wide metal doors with yellow signs on them.  You will now see another pair of red hexagon signs up ahead of you.

Walk between those signs, over the crosswalk, and out into the main road.  You should now be standing on the main road, just next to the corner of the gray stone building.  Turn to look down this main road (in the same direction as the cars in the lane you are standing on).  Just ahead of you, on a lamppost on your right, is a small white sign with red letters and an arrow.  Touchdown is sitting right on top of this sign. Face in the direction all the parked cars are pointing.  Go forwards, passing the red dumpster in the street, until you reach the first intersection, where you will turn right.  Go a single block on this road and turn right again.  There will be a subway entrance on the corner as you turn.  Go past the construction barriers in the road and through the first intersection.  You'll see an area on your right with parked cars and basketball hoops.  Before you reach the end of this area, look left and find the fire hydrant.  Touchdown is sitting on the top of the hydrant. Get turned so the large windows are to your left and go straight. You are moving the same direction as traffic. Go straight through the intersection. Now you will go almost all the way down a long block. You will pass a yellow awning on the left side. Keep going. There is a long red awning coming up on the left side that is on a green storefront. Go a little past that but not all the way to the intersection. Stop when you are right next to the beige fire escape that hangs over the sidewalk on the left side. There are 3 windows together under that. Touchdown is in the very middle of those windows. Go with flow and left at the light.  Go left again at the next light. You'll have red awning to your left and black to your right. Take a left at the next light. Again, there'll be red awning on your left.  Take a final left at the next light. There'll be green awning to your right.  

Stop before you reach the first set of stairs on the left, which are on a red brick building under an ornate metal porch.  There are 4 white framed windows on the first floor.  There's an air conditioner at the top of the 3rd, which Touchdown is in the middle of the grill of. Orient yourself so that the scaffolding is on your left and the traffic is coming at you. 
Go forward, passing the flags and make a left at the third intersection, with the blue sign and yellow lettering now to your right, at the corner of the block. 
Go against the traffic and make a right at the first intersection, where there is red awning on your right. 
Go forward and stop at the intersection, look to your right where you see the white building with two windows on the lower part of it. Touchdown is on the bottom center of the left window. Turn and face the intersection.  Hang a right when you go into it.
You should see scaffolding ahead on the right.
Turn right at the next intersection and you will have a tall green board wall on your left.  Head past the netted barriers to your left.
Stop about half-way down the scaffolding on your right, next to a black fire hydrant on your left.
You will find Touchdown hiding on the cap of the fire hydrant. Turn until the pink awning is to your right. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. There should be a playground on your left. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. There should be a corner store with blue lights around its windows on your left. Walk down the street to the next intersection and turn right. There now be another playground on your left. Walk forward past the playground. Stop in the middle of the black fence to your right. You should see a large black circle under the tallest point of the fence. Touchdown is in the middle of the circle. Align yourself with the flow of traffic. At the intersection, take a left, and shortly after, make another left. Head past a bunch of white trucks in a lot on your right, and shortly after, Stop when you're in front of the three arch doors, with the third one closed with a red door. In the right most arch door, there should be a traffic cone. Touchdown is on top of the cone. walk toward the big pile of trash bags and then turn left so you're walking with the traffic flow. Keep going down that street. You will end up behind a white box truck with red and black letters. keep going.when you are no longer behind the white truck, you'll be behind a construction vehicle with two orange cones on the back. after that truck is another box truck with graffiti on the back. Touchdown is on top of the left tail light of that truck. Orient yourself so the bridge is on your left and a brick building is on your right. Male a right at the first intersection. You will go past the first set of stop lights/intersection here. Almost to the section intersection on this street there will be a white can on your right and a parked blue explorer on your left. The touchdown is located on your right, on the yellow crosswalk sign bu the white van. Orient yourself in the direction of the nearest intersection and take an immediate right. Go straight. There should be a red crostraight ahead to the left. Take a right at the next intersection. At the following intersection you should see a large number of trees ahead. Take a right. Go straight until you see a rainbow colored garage door. Touchdown is sitting on the windowpane next to the door. Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Go forward to the intersection, and turn left. At the next intersection, go left again. Soon on your right is a courtyard area in front of a building with a glass wall. Near the end, through the windows you can see a Christmas tree. Touchdown is on that spot in the window in front of the tree. Start by positioning yourself in such a way that you are facing the bridge, then go forward towards it. As you walk you will pass a school to your right and keep going. Walk past the big white building to your right and keep going forward. Walk until you reach a small park between two brown buildings. Touchdown is sitting on the doors with white window of the building before the park under the sign with white letters. Go straight in the direction that the traffic is going and make a left at the light. Go straight toward the yellow arches and make a left at the light. Go straight and stop before you get to the end of the block. There will be three posters on your left. Touchdown is on the nose of the man in the second poster. Entering the intersection, go in the direction of traffic, with tan garage doors ahead on your left. Go right at the next intersection. The corner storefront to your right is blue and there is a bridge overhead ahead. Go right at the next intersection, going toward underneath the bridge. Once under it, you can back up a bit to the right, do it so you can go right instead of underneath the bridge. This is an alley with the bridge running along the upper left side of it. Stop before getting to a place where the bldg juts out for the second time on your right. Turn to face the corner it just out at, seeing a ladder up and an air conditioner to the right. Touchdown is on top of that air conditioner, centered.  Face the intersection next to you, head into it and turn left.  You will now have orange and white barriers to the left.  Turn left at the next intersection and you will see a blue and yellow umbrella on the left.
Head down past the flags on the left and part way into the scaffolding.  When you're right in the middle of the dumpster on the left, stop and you will see a small orange light on top of the orange netting ahead.  This is where Touchdown is hiding. Turn and follow with the traffic.Turn right at intersection that you are at. Turn left at intersection. A green store on right and then a blue one. You will pass some orange and white cones on both sides of the road. Turn left at intersection. Red awning on the right. Turn left at intersection. Brick building on right. white nad gray building on the left.  Blue railing on the left. There is a yellow and black diamond shaped sign on the right. Touchdown is in the middles of sign. Turn so you'll be passing the extremely colorful mural on your right.  Go forward, and go straight through the first three intersections you come to (they're fairly close together).  Just past the third intersection you've gone straight through there is another intersection - take a right at this one.  You'll now have a big black and white billboard on your right (above the stores), and a store with dark green walls on the left.  The building on the left (dark green) has two sets of doors (two sets of double doors).  Move until you're even with the second set of doors.  Turn to look at the opposite side of the street from the green building, and note that there is a row of four circular bike racks.  The bear is in the center of the first circle bike rack.   Face the flow of traffic with the building and red door on your left. GO toward the traffic light and make a left. There will now be a black store awning on your left. Get to the traffic light and make another left. Stop when you're about half way into the block. After you pass the school playground there will be windows with a blue wall underneath. Touchdown is in front of the second blue panel at the bottom. Position yourself so you're moving with the flow of traffic. You'll be on a one-way street and there will be an orange and white construction barrier on your right. Turn left at the first intersection. 

You'll be on a very narrow one lane street with scaffolding on your left and construction on your right. At the next intersection, turn left again. Just a short distance ahead is another intersection and you're going to turn left for your fourth time. Move ahead just a bit and you'll see double doors to the building on your left in a break in the scaffolding. Touchdown is sitting right in the center of the two doors where the space is present between the two handles.  move yourself until you see a building on the left with a big green letter "D". There will also be a bike leaning against the building on the right. Make a right at the first intersection. there will be a bright yellow car in the middle of the street. follow that street until you see American Flags on the right. The touchdown is located at the bottom of the second american flag. You're starting out almost standing in an intersection.  Turn to face the intersection, move forward into it, and go straight through it.  You'll be on a block with a mostly blank brick wall on your left, and some orange construction fencing in a little patch on your right.  Go forward to the end of this long block, and make a left at the intersection.  Stop just after you've made the turn and you've just made it a tad beyond the crosswalk.  On the left side of the street is a thick green pole with a sort of pine tree shape at the top (it's not clear what sort of pole this is).  The bear is on top of the pole.  You're almost standing in an intersection when you begin.  Move yourself so you're really in the intersection, and ready to decide which way to go.  Find the one corner that has a square red post on the sidewalk.  Turn so the red post is behind you on your left side, and there's a black fire hydrant ahead of you on the left.  Move forward out of the intersection, and at the next intersection, turn right.  
Now you'll have a red brick building with ivy and a small wrought iron fence on your left side.  Go forward one short block to the next intersection, and turn right again.  
You'll now have a brick-colored awning on your left side, and a store with a blue sign on your right.  This is your target block, and it's a residential street without a lot of markers.  Watch the homes on the left side as you go.  A few houses down you'll pass one building with green trim on the doors and flower boxes in the windows.  A few houses down from that is one that's light colored brick and has a peaked awning over the door (also tan colored).  Right next door to that is a house with white cobweb decorations completely covering the railings. Just past cobweb house is a house with a lot of white pumpkins along the stairs.  Stop when you've just barely passed the stairs with the white pumpkins.   The bear is sitting on top of the lowest pumpkin on the steps. Turn and follow the flow of traffic.  Take your first left, then the next left.  There is a blue pump/machine in the air to the right, stop just before it.  There is a red sticker on its side.  The bear is on that sticker.   Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. Move forward until you reach a three-way intersection. Take a left.

2. When you reorient yourself, there should be several blue bikes to your right and a food cart with a yellow and blue umbrella to your left. Move forward until you reach another intersection, where you'll take a left again.

3. When you reorient yourself, there should be a building with red awnings to your right and a building covered in reflective windows to your left. Move forward until you reach another intersection. Take a right this time.

4. When you reorient yourself, there should be a large building under construction to your left with orange and white barricades in front. You're not far from your destination.

5. Move forward a little bit, and stop when there's an orange diamond sign in front of a small, green building to your immediate right. Touchdown is sitting on the very top of the signpost.

Good luck! :) Go with the flow of traffic.  Go to the intersection and turn left.  There will be a row of blue bikes on your left.  Go all the way down this long street to the next intersection.  Stop immediately after you cross the first crosswalk.  Turn 90 degrees to your right.  Hanging off a black light pole is a red sign with white writing.  Touchdown is in the middle of this sign.   GO WITH traffic and GO LEFT at the light. GO LEFT again at the next light.

STOP with the huge window with black framing on your left and the grey brick building with a red sign with white letters between green and yellow vertical blocks on your right.  ROTATE LEFT.

FIND Touchdown center atop the round olive colored mailbox in front of you.

 Go with the flow of traffic, go straight through the first intersection.  You'll have a row of blue bikes on your left, continue straight.  Turn right at the next intersection.  There will be a cafe with black awnings and people sitting outside on your right.   Go straight through the next intersection and Touchdown will be on top of the ornate red pole on your left as soon as you make it across the intersection. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the construction fence on your right.  move forward to the three-way intersection and take a right. Move forward until you reach the next three-way intersection and go backwards. Reorient yourself so you are facing forward. Continue forward to the next intersection this time with the green construction fence on your left. When you have reached the next intersection take a right. There will be a brick storefront with a red awning on your right and a green storefront with a green awning on the left. Continue forward to the next intersection and take another right. You should see a white building with a red door on the left in front of you and some construction barrels on the road in front of that. Look for a building on the right with vibrant red paint around a black door and stop when you are in line with that door. Turn to your left and you will see a tricycle leaning up against a pole. Click the center of the front wheel of the tricycle to find touchdown. Orient yourself in the direction of traffic, and then take a left. Go straight past the alleyway and then take a left when you see some workers putting up posters on a wall to the right. Go straight. There is an overhang with lighting underneath and green lights on the corners. to the left. Touchdown is on the first green light. Go with the flow of traffic into this intersection and take a right turn.  There will be a wooden ramp at the business to your right.  Go to the next intersection and turn right. After the business to your left that has drop off bays, you'll see a fence that has razor wire on top.  Keep an eye on your right.  There will be one garage bay that is cracked open.  There will be a traffic cone on each side of the door.  Touchdown will be on top of the first cone. Put the courtyard with the black fence around it to your right and go down this short street. Turn right at the intersection and the courtyard will still be on your right. Stop just pass the blue mailbox on the corner and look back at it. Touchdown is sitting on top of the blue mailbox. Orient yourself so an orange and pink store is ahead on your right. Proceed forward and turn right at the first light. Pass a bike share rack and then some scaffolding on the left. Stop when under an american flag outside a building with an eagle logo. Touchdown is on the beak of the building's logo. Orient yourself so that there are green awnings to your right and blue awnings to your left, and move forward to that intersection directly in front of you, then turn left. Continue along that road until the next intersection, and turn left again. Continue in this direction until you reach the middle of the next intersection. Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant on the Northeast corner of the intersection. Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic.At the first traffic light turn left. At the very first light turn left there will be rental bikes on your left that are blue,go down this road and almost at the next light look to your right and you will see a bike that has a black seat leaning next to a sign pole. Touchdown is sitting on the seat of the bike. You are on a one way road, go with the flow of traffic. At the next intersection, go right. Go straight through the next intersection, and then you will come up to another intersection and turn right. You will be going with the flow of traffic, stop just before you get to the crosswalk of the next intersection. To your left will be the road median that has trees and to your right will be a building that is outlined in blue. Turn to your left, looking at the building with the blue. There are three windows on this building, the window on the far right has a red star in it. Touchdown is on the center of the red star. Align yourself with traffic and walk down this street until you come to a four way intersection.  Take a right at the intersection. Continue to the next intersection and take another right. Continue down this road until you see a green domes awning over a set of revolving doors. Touchdown is in the center of this awning.  Orient yourself so the brick buildings are on your right and traffic is on your left. Make a right at the first intersection. Not far from this turn there will be a cart full of boxes on your right. The touchdown is on the left, on top of the green mailbox that the post man is near. From your starting point, please turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  The blue awning with the dog and cat logo should be on your left.  Walk up this narrow street and stop at the first intersection you come to.  

Take a step forward, and your surroundings will drastically change.  There should now be scaffolding with a green canopy on your left.  Turn to your left (toward the scaffolding) and keep turning around until you are almost facing behind you.  Stop turning when you are looking directly at a payphone with a purple and pink poster.  Try to step directly towards this payphone, and your surroundings will change again.  

You should now be facing the wrong way on a street, so that you see the headlights of a large white truck, parked on the left up ahead.  There should also be two small black poles with white reflectors at their tops on your left. along with some green scaffolding.  If you can see these things, then the hard part's over.  

Just start walking straight down this street (against the flow of traffic), and walk straight through the first intersection you come to.  There should be blue posters in the window on your left as you proceed.  Keep moving forward and go straight through the next intersection.  On the other side, just to help you keep your bearings, there should be a row of orange and white barrels on the median on your right.  If so, you can keep moving forward.

Just go straight through another intersection.  This time there will be a black fence and some construction signs on the median to your right as you proceed.  

Keep going forward, but then stop at the next intersection (just past the end of the stone wall with the flower-like pattern in the squares).  

You basically want to do a U-turn here.  Turn to your right, and walk forward just enough to get onto the other side of the median on your right.  Turn right again and start walking down the narrow lane, against traffic, so that the median is on your right.  There should be a food cart with a white umbrella on the sidewalk to your left.

Walk forward, and you should see two American flags hanging from the wall on your left up ahead.  Go straight through the first intersection you come to, and keep moving straight forward toward those flags.  There should also be orange barrels on your right.  

Just move forward a bit further until you are standing right under the first of those two American flags.  Turn and look up to make sure you are in the right spot, and you can now find the bear.  Up ahead of you, on the left, is a small orange and white sign in a second-floor window.  Touchdown is sitting on the top edge of this small sign.
 Rotate so that  the vendor stands and green umbrellas are to your right, move with the flow of traffic to the traffic light ahead and Turn Left down the one way street.

Continue ahead down this long street, and when you finally reach  the traffic light move straight though the intersection and Stop on the other side of it, just past the crosswalk.
Rotate to the right and there will be a fire hydrant  to the left of a green postal box, Touchdown is sitting atop the hydrant Go with traffic to the light and go right. Go right again at the next light. Go to the next light and stop just as you get to the crosswalk.  To your right will be a huge red sign band with white dimensional letters and a subway entrance.  To your left will be a shop with a black sign band, white dimensional letters, and a subway entrance.

Rotate left.  There's a round green sign with an illustration of a woman in white with a crown on it.  Touchdown is sitting on her face. Go with the flow of direction to this first intersection and take a left turn. The park will be to your left now.  Go to the next intersection and take a left. There will be a a street off to your right ahead, stay straight. Go straight through the next intersection as well.  You'll have scaffolding and barriers to your right. There will be a red sign on your right between wood framing behind the orange and white barrier.  Touchdown is in the center of the sign. Position yourself with traffic flow. The intersection will be directly in front of you. Go through that intersection but turn right at the next intersection. When you turn at that intersection you will see three blue canopies on the building to your left. 
Continue down this street, going past a street that goes to your right where a parking garage is on the left. Just keep going straight here. 
Right before the next intersection, where you can see crosswalk lines in front of you, look to your right and there is an orange and white construction cone. Touchdown is on top of that. Align yourself with the flow of traffic in your lane. Head up to the intersection and make a left. 

Pass straight through a left turn and turn left at the next intersection. You'll pass a storefront with blue tables, pass this and on your left should be a couple polar bear murals with a glove to the left of the doors. Touchdown is in the middle of the globe. Go into the intersection and follow traffic right, passing the white stone building on the left corner on your left and scaffolding on your right. Go all the way down to the end of the block and into the intersection, but stop just before the pedestrian crossing on the other side and take one step right.

Look at the street in front of you and slightly right, and there are two big metal bollards in the island.  Touchdown is atop the one whose top looks melted and that has black scuffs on it.
 Face in the direction of traffic. The red shop will be to your right. Make a left at the intersection. At the next intersection, you will see an American flag on the corner in front of you and to the right. Make a left here. Go down the street, and you will pass some five sided brick balconies on your right. Keep going, and when you get to the intersection, where you will see a black store with white curtains on your right, make a left. There should now be construction on your right. Go past it, to the next intersection. Make a left here. Pass the grey building on your right. Stop when you're just past it. There will be a store with a red awning in the building right next to it. If you look at the door to the store, you will see a white sticker with a red border on the bottom right corner of the door. Touchdown is on the sticker.  Turn so you face the tunnel.  Go into the intersection and turn left.  At the dead end, turn left.  You should see construction on both sides of the road, but the raised freeway should be on your right.
Go forward a bit until you're next to the stairs leading up to the brick building on your left.  Right in front of you is a red and white sign on a pole.  Touchdown is on that sign. Orient yourself with the scaffolding to your left. Go straight until you reach a big intersection. Take a left at this intersection. There will be construction at the next intersection. Take a left. Go slightly past the purple bus stop to your left. There is a person printed on it. Touchdown is on the person's head. turn around until there is a grass partition on your left and parked cars on your right. Proceed forward until there is a parking lot in front of you, then turn left. Go forward and left a tiny bit, then turn left again--basically, a u-turn here. Then go straight ahead the best you can, past the block, and up until the second blue bench on your street, with a no parking sign with a bike chained to it nearby. Touchdown is on the seat of the bike. Align yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. Go straight through the first light, there should be a bunch of potted plants lining the curb on the right.  Continue straight, until you get to close to the end of those pots and veer to the left.  You should see a small grouping of pots on the left, you're going the correct way.  Go straight through the next intersection.  At the next intersection, take a left. There will be a group of mailboxes to the left.  There will be a bicycle leaning against a pole after the mailboxes.  Touchdown is hiding on the back wheel of the bicycle. Align yourself with traffic and move forward towards the intersection. Take a right at the intersection. Move forward to the next intersection. Again, take another right. Move forward down this road until you see blue scaffolding pipes to your left. Touchdown is at the base of the left most pole. In the intersection, turn away from the street fair and go down the narrow road with the orange and white cement barriers. There should be brick townhouses on the rights and trees and parkland on the left. Go straight through a small intersection with a large arch at the park entrance on the left, passing an ice cream truck on the right. Go to the next intersection. On the near right corner is a gray fire hydrant. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the orange and white traffic cones on your left. Move forward to the next intersection and take a right. You should see a building with several bicycles in front of it on your right and a grocery store with a yellow and green awning on your left. Move forward to the next intersection and take another right. You should see a colorful mural of a man on your right and a median to your left with trees and a bike lane and a paved pathway. Continue moving forward to the next intersection and take another right. In order to take a right you will have to enter the intersection and move backwards to your right and then take a right. Reorient yourself and you will see a clothing shop on your right with a pink awning.  Continue moving forward to the next intersection and take another right. There will be be a fruit market on your left and a yellow fork truck parked in the road to the left.  Move forward until you are just past the fork truck and turn slightly right. you will see a gray pole with a blue stripe at the top of it. Touchdown is sitting on top of the gray pole. Go with the flow of traffic.  Go to the intersection and turn right.  There will car parking lots on both sides of you.  Go straight through two intersections; turn right at the third.  Head down this street, watching for an entrance to a car park (it has blue tubes hanging at the top of the opening.  Stop immediately after you pass this entrance.  There is an orange barrier sitting in the road off to the left.  It's spray painted up.  Touchdown is sitting on the top, on the right edge of this barrier.  Turn and go in the same direction the traffic is going in. Move to the first intersection and take a left turn. Pass straight thru the first lighted intersection. As you approach the next intersection there will be four potted little tree/bushes on the right side. Take another left at this intersection. On the right side of the street will be a parking lot. On the sidewalk in front of the parking lot is a black fire hydrant with a yellow pole on either side of it. The Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant.  Going with the flow of traffic on the one lane street  You will see a pink store front on your right ahead, proceed all the way to the next intersection.  Enter into the intersection and look ahead to your right.  There will be a black and white fire hydrant on that corner  that Touchdown is sitting on top off.  Orient yourself so that you are facing the direction of traffic, and walk toward the intersection in front of you where the flags are.

When you reach this intersection, turn left and walk straight until the next intersection. At this intersection you should see a large beige building to the left, and trees to the right. Keep walking straight.

Next, you should get to a left hand turn. A stone building should be to your right, and a building with a green awning to your left. Turn left here.

When you turn left, you should see a row of blue bicycles to your right. There's a few bicycles together, then none, then another long row of bicycles. Touchdown is at the back wheel of the first bicycle after the space in bicycles. 



 Orient yourself so that the intersections stop signs are to your right at slightly behind you. Pass the entrance to a parking area on your right before turning right at the light. Squeeze down this narrow single lane street, pass green wood and cement barricades on your left before making another right at the first light. Pass a median of tree and bushes on the left and make a right at the next light. Pass a graffiti'd truck and the first street light on the left. In the fenced area to the right should be a wooden shack. Touchdown is on the back of the air conditioner in its window. Turn so the grey wall under the brown brick is on your left.  Travel forward to the intersection ahead and turn right.  With the green fence on your right, follow traffic through the first intersection and then stick to the right side of the road as it curves around the red brick building.  Keep going on this road as it curves around and takes you under the overpass ahead.  Stop before you go under the second overpass that is brown.  There is a sign that is blue on the left and white on the right on the brown overpass.  Touchdown is right on the line between the blue and white sections of that sign. Turn so you are facing the same direction a car would drive, the curve should be behind you.  Continue to where the road T's into another and turn right.  Following traffic, travel straight passing the first intersection then turning left when you reach the barrier.  Still following the flow of traffic, proceed down this smaller road until you reach the next intersection.  Turn left, then keep left when the road splits.  There will be construction on your left with blue support poles and a green wood cover.  Follow this road until you see a 4 way intersection.  Stop well before the intersection, just after the first bright red door on the grey brick building on your left.  Touchdown is in the very middle of the red door, right in between the black decoration arrows in the middle,  The door you want is the one farthest from the intersection. Go straight with the small red domed roofs to the right. Go straight through the first intersection. At the second intersection, bear right and stop. There is a green bag wastebasket ahead. Touchdown is sitting on top of it. Turn to face the intersection, and go right at it. Pass religious statues on your right and go right at the next intersection. Go straight down this narrow road, passing a yellow sign with a seesaw on it to your right. At the next intersection, go right again. This will put the flower shop on your left. Go right once again at the next intersection. Pass a red bench on your left, stopping just past it.  Turn to look at the building on your left. You should be in front of a billboard with people dining at a table pictured. Touchdown is sitting on the fire hydrant in front of you. Orient yourself so that you are going the same direction as the traffic.  There will be a bright yellow building on your left.  Move forward to the first intersection and turn right.  Head down the street to where an American flag is hanging off the fire station; that fire station will be on your right.  Face the fire station.  You will see three air conditioners hanging out the second-story windows of that station.  Touchdown is in the middle of the air conditioner on the right. Face in the direction of traffic.  There will be a yellow dumpster on your left.  Turn right at the first junction: there will be a park and playground on the corner as you turn.  Go down this wide road and turn right at the next intersection.  The park will again be on the corner.  Moving down the road you will reach another small park on your right.  Stop there and look to your left.  There will be a house with pictures of pumpkins in the windows.  Touchdown is on the top pumpkin in the window on the right. Turn so that your are facing the same direction as traffic and the red awning is to your right.
Travel straight ahead through the first intersection, there will be no turns.

After passing through the intersection you are close. Continue a short way ahead, noticing the yellow blue and red flag to the right at second story level.
When you are almost to that flag, see to your left a small fenced in and barricaded area. On the fence there is a orange colored triangular sign with black writing.
Touchdown is in the middle of that sign.
 
 Orient yourself in the direction of the colored barriers ahead toward the left. Go straight through the first intersection. Go straight through the second intersection which has a green gas station toward the left. Go straight until you reach a large intersection with a tunnel to the right. Take a right, but not a right to the tunnel. Stop at the next intersection. There are two orange cones to your left. Touchdown is on the nearest one. Follow the flow of traffic and turn left at the next intersection. Continue forward and turn left at the next intersection. There should be construction on your left. Go pass the construction and stop as you reach a black banner hanging on your right. The touchdown is the top part of the yellow pedestrian sign on the right.  Orient yourself facing the direction of traffic. There will be a row of blue bikes on your left. 

Go straight until you come to your first intersection. There will be a red/orange building with a green canopy to your right. Take a left. You will see orange cones on your right. Go straight to the next intersection, there will be a black building on your right. Take another left here. 

Now there should be scaffolding on your right and orange cones in front of a food truck on your left. Go straight just past those orange cones. You will see a dark green building on your left with white paint and black stripes. There will be a blue ladder leaning up against this wall. Touchdown will be on top of the ladder.
 Orient yourself so that the scaffolding is to your left, go forward and make a right at the intersection. Pass the brown, brick building and make your last right at the intersection. follow the orange and white cones/barriers down the street and stop at the intersection. Touchdown is on the center of the orange sign, underneath the crossing sign, by the scaffolding, to your left. The covered bus bench should be on the right and you'll be following the direction the cars are going in. Go to the second intersection and make a left turn. There will be a silver box stand on the left sidewalk.  Near the end of the block,  there are six white with yellow stripe posts dividing the different direction of traffic.  The Touchdown is on the last post in the line sitting on top.  Turn yourself so that the cars are parked along the sidewalk to the left. Go straight. Follow this road until you come to an intersection. At the traffic light, make a left. Go to the next light and make another left turn. You will pass some trash cans on the sidewalk to the left. Keep going straight. Before you get to the traffic light, on the sidewalk to the left are numerous potted plants. Touchdown is sitting on top of the first two potted plants.  Go in the direction of the white left turn lane sign.
Turn Left at the first intersection.
Turn Left again at the next intersection.
Stop just before fully entering the next intersection. 
Look at the upper right side corner. There you will see a green trash can and a blue mail box. Touchdown is sitting on top of the blue mail box.


 You are on a one way road, go with the flow of traffic towards the nearby intersection. Make a left at the intersection and you will have green scaffolding to your left. Go straight to the next intersection and make another left. The corner store to your left will have wood in place of windows. At the next intersection make another left, you will have green scaffolding on your left and a light colored building on your right with decorative arches above the windows. Go to the next intersection and stop in the first crosswalk. Turn to the left and you will see a black with silver top fire hydrant. Touchdown is at the top of the fire hydrant.  turn so that you are moving with the flow of traffic and head to the first intersection then take a left continue straight to the next intersection and take another left
there will be some wooden barricades n the left sight of the road move to the end of the second barricade 
and touchdown is sitting at the end on the road Turn so the green awnings are on your right and the taller rectangular building is on your left.  Follow the right side of this road past the first intersection.  Turn right at the next one.  You will see a large black wall behind a green construction wall on your left now.  Follow this road and stop in the middle of the first intersection you reach.  Look to the left and you will see two bright red vases behind a green dumpster.  Touchdown is sitting on the top of the red vase closest to you. From your starting point, please turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  The mannequins in the windows should be on your left.  Move forward down this street until you come to an intersection.  

Take a right at this intersection, so that you are walking down a wide, one-way street.  On the left of this street is a blue store sign with white lettering and a red swoosh logo.  On the right should be red curvy letters on a wall, and a yellow newspaper box on the sidewalk.  Walk down this street until you come to another intersection.  

Turn right at this intersection.  You should now be walking down a narrow street.  On the left is a dark red/maroon sign with light yellow letters.  On the right, you should see neon green lettering in a window.  

On your right, pass some green banners with palm tree logos, and then some scaffolding with a green canopy.  

Once you have passed the end of the scaffolding, move forward a bit further, but stop before you come to some orange and white construction barriers.  

You should be able to see the wide, flat edge of three barriers on the left in front of you.  Two of them are white, one is orange.  If you are in the right spot, you should be able to see some black lettering on an orange sign on the left-most white barrier as well as a small, circular orange warning light on top of that same barrier.  Touchdown is sitting right on top of this orange light.   Start by positioning yourself so the garden is to your right and the shops to the left.
Start travelling straight ahead.
Upon reaching the traffic light, turn right into the intersection after turning and moving ahead notice  a store to your right with a faded red awning and a painting on the wall with lights aiming at the painting. Continue forward, there will be no more turns.
Keep going forward past the area with all the trees on the right, keep going and pass see the scaffolding to the right as you travel.
As you approach the intersection ahead of you pay attention to the left side of the street and see a walkway between a area gated by a black iron fence and the light colored apartment building.
When you are parallel  with that walkway turn around to your right and face the green scaffolding on the opposite side of the street and see a square white sign with red writing . Touchdown is in the very center of this sign

 With the tent to your left, go straight and through the intersection. Take a left and then take another left when you see black awnings to your right. Go straight until you reach another intersection. There is a green pole to your left. On top of it there is a green and white sphere. Touchdown is on top of this. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic so the intersection is right in front of you.
Turn right at the intersection.
Turn right at the next intersection, you should stay on the surface street.
Go past the first option to turn right and turn right at the second one.
You should see a brick building to your left when you do with a black structure jutting out.
Go forward until you're next to a large silver rollup door with yellow poles on each side.  To the right of that is a normal silver door with a white sign above it.

Touchdown is on that white sign. Turn and face so that the cars are coming towards you. Move forward to the next intersection and turn left. There will be a bus parked on your right and a lady standing against a pole on the side of the road behind the bus. Touchdown is sitting between the pole and the lady's feet on the sidewalk. If you are in the correct position to your left is a black fence with many trees inside of it. To your right is a silver chain link fence with a white building inside of it it is across the street. Head straight on this road you will be crossing through an intersection. If you are on the correct route you will now be passing a giant fence that is enclosing a basketball court with a large street art wall inside of it to your right.
Continue straight until you reach the next intersection then make a right turn.
If you are on the correct road the basketball court is now to your right. You will also see a bus bench on your right.
Continue straight and so you reach the next intersection. Now make a right turn.
If you turn on the correct road to your left is a brick wall with a wooden gazebo inside of it.
Continue straight and cross through the next intersection. Once you have crossed through the intersection if you look to your right there is a store that has a red and white pinstriped awning. Next to that is a red brick wall with some gray trash cans. Touchdown is sitting on the first gray trashcan on top of the lid. Turn so that you are facing the closest intersection and then move forward into the middle of it. Turn right. There should be a building with corner white corner balconies on your right. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. There should be an orange sign on the light post to the right in front of you. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. There should be yellow store signs on the corner to your right. Walk forward to the next intersection and stop at the crosswalk. Turn right. Touchdown is in the bottom of the garbage can on the corner. Face the flow of traffic and go straight. When you see the construction barriers on your left take a right at that intersection. Go straight for a while and take another right at the next intersection. Go past the next intersection and stop in the middle of the intersection after that. On your right there will be a black fire hydrant next to silver poles. Touchdown is sitting on the hydrant.  Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic, and head to the nearest intersection.  Turn Left.  You will have a red bus lane on your right.  Continue to the next intersection.  Turn Left.  There will be a store on your left with a painting of a bee on your left.  Once you pass this painting there is a door with a decorative curved top.  The bear is on the very top of the curve on the brick. Facing against the flow of traffic, there is an intersection right in front of you. Make a left and proceed to the next corner. Across the intersection on the left is a large stone building, and next to to that is a building with a blue sign. Touchdown is in the center of that blue sign. Turn so that you're facing the same way that the cars are driving. Go straight until the next intersection, then turn right. Go down to the next intersection and turn right again. When you get to the end of the street, turn right at the intersection one more time. Right before the next intersection there will be a fire hydrant on the right sidewalk. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant. Enter the intersection that is directly in front of you.  Turn left.  There will now be scaffolding on your left.  Go to the intersection and turn left again.  There will now be lots of concrete pots with bushes in them on your left.  Go to the next intersection and turn left yet again.  There will now a block building on your left with decorative grates over the windows.  Go to the next intersection and turn left one last time.  A building with huge pillars starting on the second story will be on your left.  Pass all of these pillars and stop.  On your left you'll see a green pepper next to some red lettering above a storefront.  Touchdown is in front of this green pepper, in the center of it.   Orient yourself to move with the flow of traffic. Continue straight through two intersections. At the third intersection, take a right. A bank with a green and yellow sign is on your left on the corner. Follow the colorful balloon truck down this street. When you can see the food truck past the newsstand, both on the left, Touchdown is on the small apple (on the building) immediately above the umbrella of the food truck. Align yourself so the flatbed is on your left, and the ATM is on your right. Head up to the first intersection and take a right. Follow the truck through the first intersection, and the second, You're going to stop just after the speed limit sign and face the bikes after it. You should see a green pipe sticking out of the ground to the left of the glass of the storefront. Touchdown is sitting on top of the pipe. Orient yourself so that you are on the wrong side of the road and are going against traffic. Go straight until you reach the first intersection. Take a right. Go until you reach the first intersection. It won't look like an intersection as there is a white barrier in front of you. Ignore the barrier and go right. Continue straight ahead until you reach the next intersection. Take a right. Slowly move forward until the store with the green sign is directly on your left. On your right is a tan building with yellow signs. Turn back to your left. You should see a business sign that is shaped like an apple. Touchdown is located in the middle of the apple. Face the same direction for the traffic, with the gray awning on your left, move forward and make a left at the intersection. 
Pass the black awnings that are on your right and make your last left at the intersection.
 Pass the scaffoldings, the line of parked bikes and stop in the middle of the intersection, just past the orange and white tube with steam coming out of it. On your right, Touchdown will be on the street name sign that is on the left of the pole. Align yourself with the flow of traffic in your lane. Head up to the intersection and make a right, then another right at the next intersection. you should have a glass building with a blue logo on your left, so head down this street to just before the next intersection. To your left, there should be a duct taped construction barrel sitting next to the traffic light pole. Touchdown is on top of the barrel. Follow traffic to the intersection and go right.  Walk down the block until you're at the building just before the red entrance canvas with white letters.  You should be looking straight at a building with a yellow sign band and white and yellow dimension letters.   Just above its glass door is a round neon green circle with red neon letters.  Touchdown is dead center in the green circle. Stand so you are moving with traffic on the smaller road. Move straight to the first intersection and turn right at the first opportunity. Move forward just a bit. On your right is a set of glass doors into a building. Touchdown is in between the glass doors. Turn and go in the direction with the traffic. Bike parking is on the left. You will pass some scaffolding on the left and then pass some scaffolding on the right.  Go straight at the intersection. Buidling with red on the right. Pass the green grid building on the right. Turn left at the intersection and stop. After you get turned in the right direction. On your left is a blue mailbox and touchdown is sitting on top.  Align yourself with traffic and walk forward. Take a right at this intersection and walk forward to the next one. Again at this intersection take another right. Walk forward until you see a blue frame on a building to your right. Touchdown is in the center.  Go with traffic flow down one-way street with the building with brown awnings on your right.

Go left at the light, and left again at the next one.

Proceed almost to the end of the block, until you're at the next to last lamp post on your right, such that you can turn right and face the huge glass windows, and  be staring dead on at a trash can with the lamp post to the left of it, and a white planter with a small bush further to your left.

Touchdown is sitting over the hole at the top of the trash can. Turn and follow the flow of traffic.  Take your first left, then the next left.  Pass through the next intersection, and continue.  Pass the building with black pillars on the left, bust stop before the blue dumpster.  Look left.  There are 3 green curved pipes to the right of the door.  The bear is on the middle. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
There is a park on your left.  Hang a left the first chance you get, between the sides of the street you're on that have barriers. You will still have the park on your left.  Head forward and turn left at your first chance.
The park will still be on your left, construction barriers to the right and scaffolding on your right as well.  Head forward, past the orange diamond shaped sign.  Short after that there is a yellow article of clothing hanging on the wooden fencing inside the barrier on your right.  Stop just past that and you will find Touchdown on this yellow piece of clothing.

 Turn yourself so you are going with the flow of traffic. The business with the orange exterior should be on your right. Go straight until you come to a traffic light. Turn right. You should see a white and yellow sign with black letters on your right. Go to the next traffic light. Turn right. Go straight until you come to another traffic light. Stop just before you enter the intersection. To your left is an orange traffic cone with white stripes sitting next to a signal pole covered in stickers. Touchdown is sitting on top of the cone.  Go in the same direction as traffic.  There will be green scaffolding on your right.  Move forward to the first intersection.  Turn left.  There will be scaffolding on your right again; it's silver this time.  Head to the first intersection you encounter on this road and turn left again.  There will be a park on your right side.  Move down this street until you reach an intersection.   TUrn left.  There will be large stone buildings on both sides of you.  Move forward past the large arched entryway of the building on the right.  You will see three arched windows on your right.  Turn towards these.  There is a fancy metal light hanging between one of these arched windows and a doorway.  Touchdown is sitting on the very tip-top of this light. GO WITH traffic, with orange-striped white k-walls to your left and GO LEFT at the light. K-walls will now be on your right and the park at your left. GO THROUGH the next light,  STOP just after you pass the double white wood doors under the grey arch up the steps and inset in the red brick second story of  a building.  ROTATE RIGHT.  FIND Touchdown affixed to the keystone of the arch above the white doors. To verify you're in the correct position you should be beside a grayish color building which has gray door. This will be on your right side. On your left you will see a building which has a green awning with white print. Please head straight on the street. To verify you're going on right road please look to your right see if you're passing green scaffolding. A short distance further you also see green scaffolding on the left. Please continue straight. You should now be passing some orange construction barriers made of plastic. These are on your right hand side. On the left side you'll see a beige colored building that has arches. Still continue straight. Once you reach the first intersection please turn left.
If you've turned left on the correct street if you look to your right you'll see three trash cans that are gray in color one with the green lid one of the blue lid one of the black lead. To your left you should see white and orange construction barriers and concrete barriers with orange and white stripes. Head to the next intersection and make a left. After traveling up the street a short distance you should see mailbox on the right. Touchdown is sitting directly on top of the mailbox. If you see an American flag on your left that has passed the mailbox that is on the right. Turn so the red brick building is on your right and the white building on your left.  Travel to the first intersection and turn right.  There will be green construction on your right.  Travel to the next intersection and turn right.  There is construction here so you will be traveling against traffic.  Stop when you reach the end of the green construction barrier  on your right.  Look to your right and you will see a yellow banner on a lamp lost in front of a mostly red brick building.  Touchdown is in the middle of the yellow banner covering the body of the man in a blue suit, Follow traffic, with the red line on the pavement to your right, and go left at the light. Go left again at the subsequent light, passing a fenced in park on your left along the way.

Go to the light, but stop before the crosswalk and rotate left.   You will be facing the second to last building on the left.  The last building has a red sign ban with blue text, and the door is surrounded by a gold colored frame with a clock set in it directly above the door.

Touchdown is at the center of the clock above the door. Follow the flow of traffic and go straight. Turn right at the first intersection. Continue forward and then turn right again at the next intersection. Continue straight and go straight through the next intersection. You will see a shop with a dark red banner and yellow and white writing with a blue illustration. The touchdown is on that shop's lit-up open sign.  Move into the nearest intersection. There is an aircraft carrier straight ahead. Turn right at this intersection. At the next intersection, turn right down the one way street. There is a pedestrian ramp on the right. Just past the ramp, there is a motorcycle parked on the right side of the road. Touchdown is on the seat of the motorcycle.  Stand so that you are walking with the flow of traffic. Move forward to the intersection and turn right. Move to the next intersection and turn right again. Move straight and soon on your right, you will see a brick building with green window panes and a black awning. Touchdown is the center of the awning. Orient yourself so there is a bus stop on your right and a tall wrought iron fence in front of an apartment building on your left. Continue straight down the street, passing through a three way intersection with a parking lot, and then turn right at the first intersection with a traffic light. Continue straight just past the bus stop on the right and there will be a fire hydrant between two silver poles on the right between a parked minivan and SUV. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant. We're going on a walk around the block here.  You are going to keep the park on your left at all times.  Orient yourself so that you are going with traffic.  Turn left at the first intersection.  Go down the street and turn left again.  As you move down this street, go straight through the first 3-way intersection, but stop just as you enter the second 3 way intersection.  On your left side you should see a bright red metal cylinder of sorts.  It's sitting next to a light pole.  Touchdown is on top of this. Turn to go with traffic through the tunnel, with fencing to your left. When you exit, go right at the corner, still with traffic flow. 

At the next corner, turn right. There are construction fencing and barriers up ahead to the left. Move until you are just past the porta potty on your left. You will see a 3-way option but just stop. Look to the right and there are three small red dumpster looking carts next to a pillar painted yellow at the bottom. Touchdown is sitting in the middle red cart. turn to go against traffic, there is a sti=ore on your left with a cup of coffee on the sign. You will pass a fenced in playground on your right, continue straight and you will see an intersection, go straight through it. You will come to another intersection, there is a brick wall on the left, continue straight though this intersection. There is a school to your left with tall chin link fencing around it and a bus stop just before the next intersection. On the corner at the intersection to your left is a fire hydrant, the bear is on the hydrant Go with the flow of traffic, enter this intersection and turn left. The business to your right will have red sign.  At the next intersection, turn left.  There's yellow striped awning on your right.  Go towards the next intersection, Touchdown will be on top of the trashcan on the right corner ahead in front of the store with a blue awning. From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  The trees should be on your right and the gray building should be on your left.  

Walk forward so that the scaffolding and green wall is on your right.  Do not turn left under the canopy, just keep going straight, following the green wall and yellow-and-white barricades.  Keep moving forward and then stop in the middle of the four-way intersection.  Turn to your right so that you pass between a red newspaper box and a large yellow trash can with black lid.  

Move forward down this narrow lane, again following a green wall and white-and-yellow barricades.  Keep going straight, and then stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to.  

Turn right at this intersection so that you walk down a narrow two lane road with a median with bushes and trees on your left.  Yet again you will want to follow a green wall and white-and-yellow barricades on your right.  

Just before you come to the next intersection (at the end of this green wall), stop and look to your left.  In the median is a lamppost with a yellow diamond shaped sign.  On the sign are two black stick figures riding a see-saw.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the highest point of this yellow diamond.   Turn so your traveling with traffic. At the first intersection, take a left. Go one block and hang another left at the next intersection. There should be construction barriers on your right as you go down this road. When you reach the next intersection, go straight through and stop. You will see a bright red newspaper box right next to the street light post on your right. Touchdown is on top of red box.   Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the orange and white construction barriers on your right. Continue forward to the next intersection and take a left. In front of you to the right you should see a row of blue bicycles on the left will be a gray building. Can you move it forward to the next intersection and take a left. You should see a row of trees outside the building to the right. Continue moving forward to the next intersection and take a left. You should see a building with large arched windows on your right and a cobblestone road in front of you. Continue moving forward keeping an eye out for a tree in front of the building on the left, stop when you are just ahead of the tree. Turn to your right and you will see a  blue door in front of you with a number and the window at the top of the door. Touchdown is sitting on the number of the door. Orient yourself so the area with grass and trees is on your left.  Go forward until you have the ability to turn left, and do so.  Go straight until you have to make another turn, this time it's kinda to the left, you're basically following the park, look up ahead to make sure the park is still on your left.  Go forward, stay right to go straight.  At the four way intersection at the end of the park, continue straight across it staying on the street you're on.  Ahead of you on your right are some stairs with a black hand rail.  When you're even with those stairs, stop and turn right to look at them.  Above the gold doors is a gold grate and in the center is large gold medallion of some kind.  Touchdown is in the center of that gold medallion.   Orient yourself so that the flower shop is behind you to the left.  You should cross the intersection, and see a blue awning up ahead on the left. Continue straight ahead and turn right at the end of the block.  Go down the street straight through the first intersection and you should pass two mailboxes on the right.  continue straight until you pass the parking meter and the fire hydrant.  Just before the next corner are some newspaper stands and an army green mailbox.  Touch down bear is at the base of the yellow newspaper box. Going with the flow of traffic, proceed into this intersection and turn right.  At the next intersection, turn right.  There is a tall chain link fence on your right.  Go straight.  You'll go straight through the next intersection.  Up ahead on your left, will be a wall full of graffiti next to a basketball court.  Touchdown is in the center of the blue basketball backboard. Going with the flow of traffic, go straight ahead though this intersection. At the next intersection you should see a green awning with bold yellow writing, turn right here. At the next intersection where there is building construction, take another right.  The next intersection has traffic barriers and green fencing, take a right here.  In the median where there are all the potted plants, there is a sign that is green, white and red.  Touchdown is hiding in the middle of that sign.  Turn to face the same direction cars drive on this road.  Proceed to the intersection a short distance away and turn right.  There will be a long blu awning on your right.  Follow this road to the next intersection and turn right. The store with the light blue awning will be on your right, and you will see a darker blue one down the road.  Travel down this street, watching for green construction on your left.  Go to the end of the construction and  keep going until you see a very red door on the left.  Touchdown is sitting in the upper middle of that door on the gold knocker. Orient yourself so you are facing down the road with the bike lane to your left and the white delivery vehicle to your right, Go right and then forward so you are traveling down said road, Continue forward to the next intersection and take a left, You should see a grayish green building to your right with four blue banners, Go forward until you reach the next intersection and take a left, Stop immediately and turn to your left,You should see a garbage basket next to a traffic light pole, click the bottom of the garbage basket to find touchdown.
 Move with the flow of traffic, with the black fence to your right. Move ahead to the first intersection that you reach. Turn right there. You should now on your right have a striped red and orange awning. Move ahead with traffic, passing straight through the first light. At the second, turn right. Now you should have a wall of windows on your right.  Stop when you are at the start of scaffolding on your right, and there is a big ladder close ahead of you. Touchdown is in the crook of the tree just before the ladder. Turn to face the intersection closest to you. You'll be facing in the same direction as traffic is moving. Make a left immediately.

Walk to the next intersection and turn left. There is a vehicle with a menorah on the back parked on the left side of the road. Walk past it to the next intersection.

Turn left again. You are still headed in the same direction as the traffic. Look ahead to the left. You'll see a blue door. Walk until you just pass it. Turn and look at it. Touchdown is on the yellow diamond sign on the right side of the door. Orient yourself to follow the flow of traffic. Go forward and turn left at the first intersection. Go forward and then stop at the next intersection. There should be a phone store across the street and to your left. The touchdown is the 'T' facing the street you are on.  Orient yourself so the raised road is on your left and you are looking at the one way street that runs parallel to it.  Walk forward onto the parallel street and go up to the light.  Turn right.  Walk down the street, straight through the first intersection, and stopping in the middle of the second intersection.  Directly in front of you is a phone booth that has a picture of a person wearing a pink cape.  Touchdown is on that person's head. You are on a one way street go with the flow of traffic. At the next intersection you will make a right and then immediately turn around and go back through the intersection, this time going straight through. On the right had corner there will be a fruit and vegetable stand and on the left will be a plant store. Go straight until the next intersection and make a left. Go straight and at the end of this road follow it around to the left. Go straight to the next intersection and stop in the middle of the intersection. There will be a playground on the corner to your left. Turn to your right and you will see two short silver poles in front of a black and silver fire hydrant. Touchdown will be at the top of the fire hydrant.  Start moving in the direction of traffic. At the intersection turn right. Pass the tables on the left with the blue umbrellas. Go straight through the next two intersections. Right after the intersection, you will see a bright yellow and green food cart on the right. Touchdown is sitting on the sidewalk in front of it's white wheel. Follow the flow of traffic.Go past the stop signs and make a right at the first traffic light.Just after you turn go a few feet and turn to your right you will see 2 trees One big one and one little one.Touchdown is sitting on the grond next to the little tree Face the direction of the traffic, with the white building on your right and make a right at the nearest intersection/ Pass the black store fronts on either side of you and make another right at the intersection. There should now be a blue sign with a red boomerang on your left. Continue past it and make a right at the traffic light, with the scaffolding on your right.Follow the grassy median on your left down the block and make your last right at the first intersection. Pass the yellow storefront on your left and stop after passing the blue one. On your right, Touchdown will be on the gray top step to the right of the green awning. Turn so there is a mailbox and red rectangle on the sidewalk to your right. Head down this one way street with traffic. Go straight through two intersections. At the third intersection take a left. The buildings on both sides of the street are under construction. Head down this street and stop at the end of the row of orange and white barriers on the left side of the street. You will see a business on the right with maroon colored letters on the sign with a matching awning. There are yellow posts outside on the sidewalk. Touchdown is sitting atop the one on the right by itself. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  At the first intersection turn right and there will be some green fencing on the right.
As you approach the red awnings on the right, the road will split and you will want to go left so the white and silver divider cones are on your right.
Go into the intersection and turn around.  Go forward using the left most direction and turn around again and go through the intersection.  You should have silver and white divider cones on your left and the road should start bending to the right.  Follow it around and merge with another lane of traffic.

Head forward until you're just under the overpass and you should see a blue sign on the wall on the right that Touchdown is hiding on. Go straight toward the street with a divider.
Keep on this street, no turns!
On your left, next to a park you will see two yellow short school buses 
Touchdown is on the ford logo of the first school bus. 
 Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic as the road slopes up.
Go forward towards the bridge in the distance.  Keep going until you see a large white building with a balconies everywhere and stop when you get to the edge where it starts.  Touchdown is hiding on the fourth balcony from the bottom furthest to the right.  This balcony is the first balcony not obscured by the tree in front of you. Turn and follow traffic down the street. There will be an orange store on your right and then a blue one. Turn right at intersection and there is a blue store  on right. You will continue thru the 2 stop signs on your right and left.  Turn right at the intersection. There will be benches with fencing on your left.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the first bench in the middle.  Orient yourself so that you see red brick on your right white brick on your left. Go down this street. Keep going past the store with the purple lights in the window. When you come to the intersection, turn left. You should see two big trucks on your left and a red store with white letters on your right. Go down this road past the trucks. When you come to the next intersection, take another left. You should now see a spiky fence on your right and green awnings on your left. GO past the big black truck. Keep going. You will pass a yellow awning on your right side. When you come to the next intersection, turn to your right. You should see a signpost with two black and white signs. Touchdown is at the tip of the arrow on the top sign. Stand so you are moving with traffic. Move straight to the intersection and turn right. Move to the next (3-way) intersection and turn right again. Continue until you reach the next intersection. On your left corner is a green trash can. Touchdown is on the trash can. Position yourself moving with the flow of traffic so there is a yellow newspaper stand just up ahead on both sides of the street. Turn left at the first intersection. After you turn, there will be a food vendor on your left and a dark brick building with four bright blue flags on your right. 

Stay straight down this long block and turn left when you get to the next intersection. Pass the first bus stop on your right and just a few steps ahead is a second one.Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the bench of the second bus stop. There is something orange on the ground just below him.  From your starting point, please turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  You should see a green canopy over some scaffolding on your right.  Walk down this street until you come to an intersection.

Turn right at this intersection and start walking down the one-way road that has scaffolding and white-and-yellow construction barriers on the left.  Walk down this road until you come to another intersection.  

Turn right at this intersection.  You should be facing down a narrow road that has a red brick wall on the right and a slightly-slanted glass wall on the left.  Walk down this narrow lane.

Keep an eye on the brick wall to your right as you go, and you will pass a garage door with orange cones on both sides.  Keep going and you will soon pass another garage door, this one is completely open.  Just keep going and pass the other garage door just further down the road.  

Continue in this fashion until you come to the last garage door on the right.  This one is also completely open.  Walk past it, and also walk past an open parking-garage door on the left.  Stop when you are standing between a white door on your left and a green section of bricks on your right.  There will be a small blue sign on the red brick wall just in front of you.  Touchdown is sitting on the top edge of this small sign.
 Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic, continue forward to the intersection and take a right. You should see Subway entrances on the right and left side of the road continue down this road I look for a black awning on the right and a blue awning on the left. After the blue awning on the left you'll see some scaffolding continue halfway down the scaffolding and stop. You should see a tree just to the right of a red awning and on the ground is a red pipe sticking out of the ground. Click the middle of the red pipe to find touchdown. You are on a one way street, turn the direction of traffic, and make a right at the first opportunity. Almost at the end of this block, you should see a long building with blue overhangs on the windows. At the start of this building are two green mailboxes and a parking meter. Touchdown is sitting on the parking meter.  From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing a crosswalk.  Walk forward a short distance, into the middle of the intersection.

Now, turn to your left, so that you see a small shop on the left-hand sidewalk with a small A-frame chalkboard standing on the sidewalk.  Move forward down that road, keeping the shop and the chalkboard on your left.  You should now be on a curvy road.  If so, you are on the right track, so you can just keep moving forward.  

If you pass a building that has a section of red bricks on top of a section of blue tiles, you are about halfway to the next intersection.  

Keep walking forward until you see crosswalks, and then stop in the middle of that intersection.  Turn to your left, so that a storefront with a light blue sign (and white lettering) is on your right and a small park is on your left.  Walk forward, keeping the blue-signed store on your right.  

Go a little bit further, and you will see large white letters painted across the road surface.  Stop on top of those letters and look for a blue canopy over a store window on the right-hand sidewalk.  

Touchdown the Bear is sitting on top of an oval-shaped logo on the far side of that blue canopy. Orient yourself to face the flow of traffic so that a "do not enter" sign is to your right. Stop before the next intersection. There should be a bus parking ahead and to your left. The touchdown is on the bus's stop sign (on its side) Turn so you are heading down the street with the green lane on the right. Head straight down this street. Stop at the intersection with the large gray sign in front of a brick building. Turn right here. Head down the street until you come to the row of blue bikes. Touchdown is on top of the green mailbox behind the bikes. It has some red illustration on it. With the benches to your left, go straight and take a right at the second intersection. Take another right when you see a ramp ahead. go past the first T intersection and then take a right when the underside of the bridge turns purple. At the next intersection there is a mailbox to the right. Touchdown is sitting on it. Put the blue wall on your left.  Take the first right.  Stay on this road towards the giant TV on the right.  Pass the TV and barely pass the vendor on your right.  You will almost be directly in front of it.  The bear is on top of the left blue and yellow umbrella. Head down the street with a phone store and restaurant on your left.go past the second traffic light at the third traffic light turn right.touchdown will be sitting on the ground next to a pipe coming out of the ground next to a set of brown doors. Turn so you can see a white sign with a red circle and white bar going through it. Keep this sign to your left. Walk down the street toward the store with a blue awning on the left corner ahead.

Just past that store with the blue awning is an intersection - turn right. You'll have an all-red fire hydrant on your right. Walk down this street for two blocks.

The second intersection you come to will be just before the bridge overhead. Turn right here.

Walk down the street and through the intersection. Just as you come out of the intersection, look to the right. There is a yellow sign with black figures on it. Touchdown is on the sign.

 Look for the large group of bikes on the corner. Go down the one way street that places the bikes to your left. A sub ground store with a purple awing will be on your left side. Turn right at the first intersection. Turn right again at the next intersection, a building with blank blue signs will be on the corner.  Stop before the road work on the left, directly next to a store with a neon sign in the window on the left. Look right there are three trash cans. Touchdown is sitting on top of the middle trash can. Follow the flow of traffic and make a right at the second intersection which will be a dead-end. Make a right at the intersection, with the fenced in trees now on your right. Stop in the middle of the first intersection and look to your left, where you see the park. Touchdown is on the blue top of the garbage can to your left. Turn so you'll be going with the flow of traffic, move ahead to the intersection, and turn left.  You'll be in a sort of parking area (parking along both sides of the street).  Go straight through to the intersection and turn left again.  Go one very short block to another intersection and turn left yet again. You'll be on a very narrow street with construction going on on both sides of you.  Go forward until you're standing in the middle of the next intersection, then stop in the intersection.  Turn until you see the corner of the intersection that has a huge row of rental bikes.  The bear is sitting on the curb in front of the parked bike closest to you. You're starting right near an intersection.  Turn so the shop with the faded red awning is on your left, and move forward a little bit.  Keep going in this same direction through the four-way intersection (so the red lane painted on the street is on your right and you're going with the flow of traffic).  At the next intersection (traffic light), turn left.  You'll be on a smaller street with square-ish cement planters on the right. Go forward, and you'll see a skyway overpass (indoors for pedestrians) that goes over your street.   Before you get to that skyway, note that there is a building on the right with arched windows.  After that is a plain brick area, and then a building with a set of 6 gray garbage cans along the sidewalk.  Stop before you reach those trash cans.  The bear is on top of the trash can closest to you (the one with the lid off). Turn and walk in the same direction as traffic.  Pass by a playground with a colorful wall on your left. Go right at the 1st intersection. Pass by the blue building on your left with painted letters along it. Go right at the intersection. The doors on the building to your right are all light blue. Walk till you see a chain link fence on your left. Walk just past the playground behind the fence and stop and face the fence. Touchdown is sitting directly in front of the tree between the playground structure and the fence gate.  His back is touching the tree. Turn so you're facing the flow of traffic.  Go backwards until you can go forward and left.
Go straight through the next intersection.

In the next intersection, stop and look right.  You should see a bright orange box.  Touchdown is on it Orient yourself away from the flow of traffic. Go to the end of the intersection, and take a right. Follow this down to the next right. Follow this road until you see a yellow truck pull out, and then take 3 more steps once you've passed it. You should see a neon red sign on a mostly glass building. Touchdown is on the N in the sign. Turn with the flow of cars and enter the nearest intersection.  Turn left, then take the next left.  Head down this road for a while.  There is a black covered walkway on the left.  Halfway through there is a blue bus stop.  To the left of the stop is an empty stool at the vendors.  Bear is sitting on top.   There is a playground here, put it to your right and start forward.Pass straight through two intersections. Right after the second, stop.You should see on your left, a waste bin, a light pole, a red newspaper dispenser and a mostly empty row on bicycles for rent. Touchdown is on top of the red newspaper dispenser. Follow the flow of traffic and go straight. Turn left on the first intersection. After you turn there should be a restaurant on your right and a store with a red awning on your left. Continue forward and stop right after you go straight through the first intersection. The touchdown is on your right on the green awning in the middle of the bread illustration in white.  Orient yourself where you notice a mail box with graffiti on your left and a lot of parked cars on your right. Follow the road passing multiple red awnings on your right. Eventually you will arrive at an intersection when you pass a building on your right that has an animal as a logo. Once at the intersection, make a right turn  and continue forward till you arrive at an intersection up ahead. At the intersection, make a right turn. Once you made a right turn you should notice a dark blue awning on your left. Pass the dark blue awning and don't go any further. If you look to your right and turn behind you there should be a black fire hydrant between two yellow poles. The touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant. If you're in the correct position there should be a subway entrance to your right and to your left. There should also be a brick building to your right into your left. To the left behind you is a building with purple and white awnings. Head straight away from those buildings. You will be going between the two brick buildings. If you are heading the correct way there is a brick building on your left with right awnings. On your right you will see a white brick building with brown doors.
When you reach the first intersection please turn left. Continue straight almost to the next intersection then stop look to your left and you will see a phone booth touchdown is sitting in the middle of the top of the phone booth. Turn so you are facing the flow of traffic with a white truck on your right.  Go through the first intersection.  At the second, turn left.  You'll see a white van on both sides of the street.  Go down this street and you'll see food trucks on your right, keep going.  At the next intersection, turn left so you see scaffolding on your right.

Go forward a bit, when you see a large blue sign above a large purple sign, stop.

Touchdown is at the bottom of the last letter of the purple word. Orient yourself with traffic, proceed, and turn left at the light. Go straight through two lights and turn left at the third. Stop when you are even with the corner of the storefront on the right side of the street. Touchdown is centered in the circular logo of this store with foreign characters. With the porta john to your right, go straight. Go past the park to your left and straight through the intersection. At the next intersection, which has a row of newspaper dispensers to the left, take a right. Go straight until almost at the next intersection. There is a red brick facade with a red door to the right. Touchdown is right in front of that door. Follow traffic into the light and go right. There'll be a series of grey awnings to your left. Go through the first light and left at the next, but don't step on the crosswalk.

Slightly ahead and on your right is a black trashcan. Touchdown is center atop it. turn down the street that keeps the red building on your left, you will pass a mechanics garage. You will pass a large brick wall on the right, keep going, you will come to an intersection, across the street is an orange port a potty, the bear is on the white roof Turn around and align yourself with the flow of traffic on this street. Make a right at the first intersection, then another right at the next intersection. Before the next intersection, you should see a glass building with a red and blue logo. In front of that is a blue post box. Touchdown is on top of the blue post box. Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street, and the place with the yellow umbrellas is on your left.  Go forward until you reach an intersection, and turn left.
On this block you'll have construction scaffolding along the right side.  Go one short block to the next intersection, and turn left again.
You'll have a couple of yellow awnings, several banners, and an American flag along the right side on this block.  Go forward past the American flag.  There are a couple more flags on the right - the first is black and the second is blue.  Pass those flags, too.  After the blue flag, look on the left.  There is a small shop with a blue (almost turquoise) awning.  Stop when you've almost reached that awning.  The bear is in the middle of the door to that shop. Follow the flow of traffic.  Pass through this intersection.  Continue to the next, and turn left. Just before the next intersection you will see a bus stop with an orange ad.  There is a bike leaning on it.  The bear is on the seat.   Move with traffic,go to the 1st intersection and take a right, there is a brick building with brick planters and red fire escape on your right. You will pass scaffolding on your left, go to the intersection , take a right, there is a hydrant to the right, the bear is on top Turn to go with traffic flow. Go to the first intersection and turn left. When you turn the store on your right will have big yellow lettering and a picture of a bottle. The pub to your right has red awning. Move forward to the next corner and go just through the intersection. There are three trash cans to the left on the corner, on black, one green, one blue. Touchdown is on top of the green one. Swivel until you're facing the same direction as the cars. You are going to walk forward for a fair bit, so get started, and watch for these landmarks: To your left you'll pass a building with artwork that looks like a heart. Further down, to your right, many glass windows in white wooden frames with stairs above. Trees on both sides of the street.  Finally, you'll reach an intersection, where there's a park directly ahead. Turn left and go forward.  You'll reach another intersection (the park just ended at your left) which you should go right, between the scaffolding in front of a red building with lines and a yellowish one. Touchdown is at the base of the weird red looking column on the right hand corner (with the yellowish building) Turn and follow traffic to the end of the block, and go right.

Walk all the way down a very long block, eventually passing two blue (one bright, one slate) awnings on your left before a green wall.   Go right when you reach the end, and take two steps, then turn to your right.  You should be facing two blue mailboxes and a green trash can.

Touchdown is sitting exactly center on top of the gap between the two mailboxes. From your starting point, please turn around to face the four-way intersection, and take a step or two forward into it.  You should now be able to turn to your right and face down a wide road with a yellow and red shop sign on the left and pink and blue posters on a shop on your right.  

Walk down this road and stop in the middle of the next intersection you come to.  Turn to your right.  You should be facing down a narrow road with Broadway billboards up ahead.  Walk down this road.  

It is a long straight walk, so please ensure that you pass a small parking lot on your right.  

If you pass an orange chimney, and then an awning with gold signs, you are about halfway there.  

On the right, you will soon pass a large red vertical sign on a building.  

Move forward a bit more, toward the intersection, and just before you enter the intersection, look up and to your right.  You should see a blue advertising sign with a teddy bear.  Touchdown the Bear is sitting on top of this bear's head. Orient yourself so the green scaffolding is on your right and a light-colored building with a white and blue sign is on your left. You'll see an intersection right in front of you. Walk through it and continue going straight. 

At the next light, you'll see a store with a blue awning ahead on your left. You need to keep going straight here, as well. 

When you arrive at the next intersection, turn right, and stop. After you turn, there will be a playground with colorful fencing on your left. In the corner of the playground closest to the corner of the intersection (and closest to where you should be standing), is a yellow bench. Touchdown is sitting on the arm of the bench that's closest to you. Follow the flow of traffic and keep right as the road splits. Stop as the barrier appears to separate the road you are on from the main road. To your right is a brown fire hydrant. The touchdown is the bottom of the hydrant.  Follow traffic to the light and go left. You'll see red awning on your right before the light, where you'll go left again. Make one final left at the next light. You'll see a long red awning on your right on the other side of the treed median.   Stop when you're in line with the second to last tree in the median.  In the gap of the median ahead and right of you, there's an orange cross marked on the pavement.  Touchdown is sitting at the center of it. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
You will have a light blue and white striped awning directly to your left.
Hang a left just past the dumpster.  You should see scaffolding ahead on the left.
Go straight through the next intersection.  On your left will be a building with two big white pillars and red doors.
Turn left at the next intersection.  The business to your right will have green and red neon signs.
Go straight, taking the furthest out right when you have no choice.
Head forward to the split, stopping just before it.  You will see an orange portable toilet to the left.  Touchdown is on the green sign on a pole right between the two roads where it splits. Turn so you are facing the intersection. Go straight at the light ahead. Travel about a block and take a right. There will be construction on the right side of the street. Follow the barrier wall on the right all the way to the end and stop. There is a orange and white construction barrel close to the road here. Touchdown is sitting on top of it. Ignore the one closest to the chain link fence.  Turn towards the intersection, going right once you are at it.  On your right will be large silver roll up doors.  Hang a right at the dead end.  The building to the right will be reflecting everything on the road.  Go straight through the next intersection.  On your left will be orange and white barriers.  There will be a gap with some cones and the barriers will start again.  Stop when you're at the start of the second set of barriers.  Just above it is a white sign with green and black text.  This is where you will find Touchdown. Head down the road with the water on your left and buildings on the right.  Pass under the bridge and keep going.  You will pass a grey and white building with circular signs in each of the lower level windows.  When you reach the end of this building you will see it has a smaller extension that has a sign with the company's name in white letters on the top and an entrance at the bottom.  Touchdown is in the middle of this entrance. Orientate yourself  face the same direction as traffic with the blue scaffolding to your right.
Travel forward to the first intersection and make a left turn.
travel one block down to the next traffic light and turn left onto the one way street.
There should now be a subway station on the corner to your left and a building with a green awning jutting into the sidewalk just ahead. Pass that building with the green awning and notice another green awning just ahead.
After you pass the second green awning, notice to your left  notice a red/orange brick building with black windows and a door with iron bars and a light over the door.
Touchdown is sitting atop that light .



 Turn so that you're walking with the flow of traffic, staying on the 4 lane road. Continue until the next intersection, then turn right. Continue forward until you're almost at the next intersection. You'll see a parking meter on the left sidewalk. Touchdown is sitting at the base of the parking meter facing the curb. From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  The stone staircases should be on your right and the dark gray canopies should be on your left.  Walk straight forward and then stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to.  Take a right at this intersection, sot hat you walk down a wide one-way street between a park on the right and a small shop on the left with a black sign with red, white, and green lettering.  

Walk down this road and then stop in the middle of the next intersection you come to.  Again, take a right in the intersection.  This time you should be walking down a narrow lane with a green awning and red-and-white lettering on your left.  

Just walk straight down this narrow lane.  When you see a park with lots of trees on your right, you are about halfway there.  

Walk forward past the park, and past a blue canopy with white lettering on the left, and then go just a bit further until you are standing in front of three motorcycles parked on the left side of the street.  

Look up ahead for a bright yellow sign with black stick figures on the right side of the street.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the highest point of this sign. So you're going to position yourself so you are with the flow of traffic. You should see some guys on the left with ladders. Go to the intersection and take a right. On the left is a brick building and on the right you will see a fence set up with a portable toilet. Go down this road until you hit the next intersection. You will pass a fence on your left. Take a right at the intersection. There will be red and yellow paper   machines on the left. Go down until you see the bike sign on the pole on your right. Your touchdown is the middle of that sign.  Turn so that you're facing the same way that the cars are driving and you see a tall wide building obstructing the street ahead of you. Go straight until the next intersection, then turn right. Go down the block and again turn right at the next intersection. Go forward to the next intersection. On the left side is a store with flowers. There's a green trash bin by that store. Touchdown is sitting on top of that trashcan. Align yourself with the flow of traffic on this street. At the first intersection, make a right, and then another right at the next.

Head to the next intersection, and stop right in the middle of the right turn and the intersection. on your right, slightly behind you will be a rainbow colored umbrella. Touchdown is on the pink of the umbrella, to the left of the purple flap not aligned with the rest. Align yourself so that the traffic for the other lane is on your left, you'll head down the freeway until you come to an apartment building with two rounded parts of it sticking out. You should stop after you cross the first rounded edge of the building, and should see a van parked here. Touchdown is on the right taillight of the van. Orient yourself so that the black shops next to the read and yellow awning are on your right. You should not go across the intersection. Continue forward, going straight. You should see a lot of construction in the road. After the construction, turn right at the intersection. Continue straight and then turn right at the next intersection. There will be a traffic cone on the sidewalk on the right. The touchdown is on the traffic cone. Turn so you going with the flow of traffic. Head down the street to the light. Take a right. There will be a green bike lane to your left. Go straight one block and take a right. Ice cream truck will be on your left. Go straight until you are just past the black post with a blue stripe around it (right side of street). Touchdown is sitting on the fire hydrant on the other side of this post.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
There will be orange and white barriers ahead.
Turn left at the next intersection.  The building to your left if you look up is completely covered in scaffolding and netting.
Turn left at the next intersection, heading into oncoming traffic and a colorful painted wall to the left.
Go straight through the next intersection.
Stop when you're next to the playground on the left and the blue circular sign at the top of a pole.  Touchdown is hiding on this blue circular sign.
 Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  There will be a national flag up ahead on the left.  Move forward past the scaffolding and turn right at the first intersection.  Move forward and turn right again at the next intersection.
Once you turn you should see a black marquee with gold lettering on the left and a storefront on the right that has some orange.  Head down and stop a bit short of the yellow dumpster on the right, next to the opening in the black gate on your left.  Touchdown is hiding between the orange cones in front of the yellow dumpster. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and the orange netting is on your left.  Head down this long street to the next intersection and turn left.  After you do, look for the red awning on your left and an overhang on your right 
over some gold trimmed doors.
Go straight through the next intersection and there will be scaffolding on the right and purple awnings to the left.  Go forward to the end of the purple awnings and you will see a pole with some signs on it.  Touchdown is hiding on the red sign at the top of the pole.
 Go toward the nearest intersection. 
Make a right at the intersection.
Turn right again, (you will see a small white building with a large red door, on the left)
Stop when you pass the USPS mail truck on your right.
Look right, there is large red brick building with green glass double doors. You will see the mailman's blue delivery bag outside the doors.
Touchdown is on top of the delivery bag.(the side closest to the doors) Orient yourself with traffic and turn left at the first intersection. Turn left again at the next intersection. Just past this is a blue tarp-covered dumpster parked on the right. Proceed about two-thirds of the way down this block. There is a car rental store with a green, black, and white sign on the right side. Touchdown is on the first letter of the sign above the garage entrance to the store.  Position yourself with the flow of traffic on the 6 lane street.
Go forward and make a right at the first intersection.
Travel down this street until you pass a large green dumpster.
Stop in front of the building on your right side with 4 striped white and red awnings.
In one of the windows on this building you will see a white square with a letter of the alphabet on it.
The touchdown is the blue letter on this white square.
 Follow traffic to the end of the block and go right, go to the end of the block and right again, and proceed until you see a building with a sign band showing a pair of white headphones up ahead and to your left. Do not advance paste the open door on the left before the building just mentioned; you must be looking at it diagonally, and not have it directly to your left.

Touchdown is dead center between the white headphone's ear pieces. Turn so that the park is on your left. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn down the right most street. The red wedge building should be on your left. Walk forward until you reach the street that connects on the right. Go down this street. When you get to the end you want to go through the intersection until you can turn right. Take the right when you can. You may have to walk a little back toward where you came to do so. After you make the right you want to walk forward until you can take the skinny exit to the the left. You should cross through a bike lane. Stop once you cross it.

There is a yellow diamond sign with a red octagon and black arrow on it. Touchdown is in the middle of the octagon. Turn with the flow of traffic and face the intersection. Walk up to it and turn left.

Now there will be construction scaffolding on your right. Walk down to nearly the end of the block. Keep an eye on the right side.

As you near the end of the block, you'll pass some construction on the left. On the right is a yellow sign with two black figures on it. After the sign on the right, there will be a green awning that comes out over the sidewalk. Touchdown is on the flower insignia on the awning facing the street.

 Face the huge intersection with the big yellow building ahead on the left. Take a right hand turn and move forward toward the skyline. At the intersection turn left, and take another left soon after. There is a large church on your left. Touchdown is at the end of the church, past all the gates and fencing, sitting in front of a lone brown door between two windows just before the curb. Follow this road keeping the blue bikes on your left side.  Turn right at the next intersection.  You should be behind bus 5280.  Walk to the next intersection.  Turn right.  You should have blue bikes on your left again.  Walk to the next intersection. Turn right.  There will be a painted american flag on a car.  walk forward.  Pass the green dumpster and stop.  There is a man standing near grey doors.  He has his right hand extended.  He is holding the bear with that hand. Orient yourself so you are facing the closest intersection and there are rainbow signs in the store to your left.  Step into the intersection and turn right.  Walk down to the next intersection and turn right.  Begin walking down the street, looking for a green awning on your left that extends from the door to the curb.  When you're even with that awning look to your right for an olive colored mailbox.  Walk up to that mailbox and stop.  Turn to your right and look for the place where the red brick building meets the tan brick building.  On the red brick building part there is a black door with a square light above it.  Touchdown is sitting on top of that square light. Turn and go in the same direction as the traffic. Turn left at the intersection. A big glass building to the right. Go straight at the intersection. Go straight at the next 2 red lights. You will have a green wall to your left. To your right is a white sign with black arrows on it. Touchdown is on top of the sign.  Turn so that the parked car is on the left.  Move forward until the road ends.  You will be looking at water.  Turn right.  Just past the bus on the left there is an orange barrel.  The bear is on top. Go with the flow of the traffic and take a right at the intersection. You should see trucks on the left and in front of you. It looks like somethings going on. Go to the next intersection and take a right. You're going to go straight through the first intersection. Keep on going until you see the blue sign on the left and just in front of that is a yellow sign. Next to that is a red VW. Your touchdown is the garbage on the ground next to the white car.  Stand so that you are facing the nearby stoplights. Move forward to those lights and turn right. Move to the next intersection and turn left. Continue and there is a place you can veer left, towards a colorful playground. Make the full left turn, and move past two yellow taxis on your right. That corner on your right has a trash can next to two people. Touchdown is on the trash can. Position yourself so the orange and white construction barrels are just ahead on the corner on the right. Head towards those barrels and turn right on that road. Just after you turn, you'll see a food vendor to your left with red and yellow umbrellas. 

Go straight to the first intersection on this street and turn right again. You'll have a business with a red sign and white lettering to your right after you turn. 

At the next intersection, keep going straight. At the following intersection, turn right and move forward just the slightest bit.The business on your left has tables and chairs outside. Touchdown is sitting on top of the silver table that's up against the wall and doesn't have any chairs.  From your starting point, please turn around so that the yellow stripes in the middle of the road are on your right.  Walk forward until the road ends at a T-intersection.  

Turn right at this T-intersection and walk forward so that the metal guardrail is on your left.  Walk forward, and you will merge onto the wider road.  A concrete dividing wall will be on your right as you do so.  

Now just keep walking forward for a while, as the road curves to your right. 
 
Pass under a bridge, and you are getting close, so start to keep an eye out for landmarks.   You will see two large, square green signs above the road up ahead, but apparently you have to be in just the right spot to find the bear, so please (*ahem*) bear with me for a second.  

In front of you, you should see a dotted white line on the right side of the road, marking an off-ramp lane.  To the left should be a small square yellow sign with a large black arrow on it.  Walk forward, pass this sign, and stop when you can turn around, look behind you (to where that square sign was), and see a yellow, diamond-shaped sign with black numbers and arrows on it.

Touchdown is sitting on top of the highest point on this diamond   You're standing just at the edge of an intersection. Position yourself in a way that puts the intersection directly behind you and has you walking with traffic on a one-way street. There will be cars parked on both sides of the street and a green bike lane to your right and tall white pillars on a building to your left. Go straight through the first intersection, and turn right at the second one. 

Just before you get to the first intersection on this street, you'll see a bike leaned up against a curved bike rack on your left side. Touchdown is sitting on the seat of that bike.  Face so that you have multiple police vehicles on your right hand side.  Go to this intersection and take a left.  Now go to the next intersection and take a left again.  When you pass the red emergency vehicles look for the first rounded blue awning on the left.  Touchdown will be hiding right above the number on the awning. Orient yourself so that you are facing into that close intersection. At the intersection, turn right. Go straight to the next intersection and turn right again. Continue to the next intersection. In the center of it, on the corner ahead on your left is a blue mailbox. Touchdown is on the mailbox. Face the direction so you are traveling the same direction of the cars. The water will be to the left. Continue until you reach where one lane continues straight and the other two lanes veer off to the right as an exit. You'll want to make sure to take the roads that veer off towards the right. As you continue to the road will split off again., two will go straight and one lane will go to the right more. Take the single lane going right and down, it's on the right side of the all blue sign. You will eventually start to merge into the main road.  There are three parked cars along the right sidewalk. A red car, a blue sedan, and a white minivan parked along the blue sedan on the sidewalk. There is a black fire hydrant with silver cap in front of the white minivan. The Touchdown is on top of the silver part of the hydrant.  Stand so you are facing into an intersection, with the fenced playing court ahead to your right, and a gray wall with painted graffiti ahead on your left. Move straight through the intersection, passing between those two corners as you leave the intersection (court and graffiti wall). Continue until you reach the next light; turn right here.

Now pass by the fenced court on your right side, continuing down this street until you reach an intersection. Turn right, and you are on a one-way road, with a blue mailbox close ahead on your right. There is a sideways green mailbox behind it. Step forward past the two mailboxes and stop. Face right. Touchdown is at the bottom middle of the green double doors closest to you (above the brown steps). turn so you are moving with the flow of traffic you will see some scaffolding with green boards on your left side continue straight there is a break in the scaffolding and then it starts again go to just before the scaffolding starts again and there is a tree directly to your left touchdown is sitting on the front side of the tree nearest you in the middle  Go in the direction that has two banks to the right of you. Turn right at the first intersection, there will be red brick buildings on BOTH sides of you. Continue straight, just after you pass the blue van on your left  with a gemstone on it, stop and turn to the left. You will see a gray awning with a white van parked to the right of it and a bush with red flowers to the left of it. Touchdown is at the base of the pole on the left that is holding up the awning. Where the pole meets the sidewalk. Turn to follow traffic down a one way street, where the right corner store has a red sign band, and the left side of the street has a visible red newspaper stand.

At the end of the block, turn right. Proceed to the end of the block again, and go right, again.

To your right should be a small black sign band with white lettering, and to your left flowers under many green overhangs with white lettering. 

Walk just enough so you can turn to your right and face a distinct set of orange, yellow and red newspaper stands. To the right of them is a red fire hydrant with a silver top between two silver pipes.

Touchdown is impaled on the silver metal top of the red fire hydrant.
 Follow traffic to the light and go right. Go right again at the next light.  Stop just before the final large overhead door on the building on the left and rotate left.

You should be facing a door dead on.  Touchdown is at the end of the grey arrow in the red circle above the wide open  bay to the right. Turn to walk with traffic to the first intersection. Turn left.

You will now have a shop with an orange, green and red striped sign on your left. This is a long block - walk all the way to the end.

At the end of the block, walk into the middle of the intersection. On the left corner in front of you is a business with blue awning. Touchdown is on the base of the pole holding the stoplight on that corner.
 Turn around and align yourself with the flow of traffic in your lane, and the opposite traffic is to your left. Head straight through the first intersection, and make a right at the next. You'll pass through one more intersection, and stop before the next. on your right there should be a dumpster with a blue tarp on the street to your right, but you should focus on the green trash bin, where touchdown sits on top. Go in the direction that will put the orange and yellow newspaper boxes on your right and construction barriers in the middle of the road to your left. Go to the next light and then make a u turn and go back in the same direction you came from. Make a right at the light and stop at the crosswalk just before the multicolored mural on the building to your right and a red brick building with black fire escapes on your left. Turn towards the multicolored mural on the right and you will see a fire hydrant at the curb in front of it. Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant.  Turn so the flags are on your left and you can follow the flow of traffic.  Proceed down this road as it curves to the left and follows the wall of the elevated road on your right.  Follow this road until you reach the intersection and turn left and a quick left again.  There is a store with a yellow awning, red sign and white writing on the corner you are turning around.  Keeping that store on your left, proceed down this road until you reach the next big intersection.  Stop there and look across to the corner on the left.  There is a single garbage can to the left of the street light post.  Touchdown is sitting on top in the middle of the can. From your starting point, please turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  You should see bright yellow signs with black stick figures on both sides of the street up ahead of you.  Walk forward down this street, and go straight through the first intersection you come to, making sure that the small playground with blue equipment stays on your right as you proceed.  

Continue walking straight, and after a row of orange cones on the left, go straight through another intersection. 

As you approach the next intersection, you should see blue and green newspaper boxes on the right-hand sidewalk.  Take a right at this intersection so that you walk down a narrow road with trees with yellow leaves on both sidewalks.    

Walk straight and then stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to.   

Turn to your right in this intersection, toward a street with a green bike lane, and take a single step toward that bike lane.  Stop there, and look to your right for three trash cans in a row, one has a blue lid, one gray, the other green.  There should not be a fire hydrant next to these cans.  Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the green lid. Go with the flow of traffic and go past the first street so that the building with glass front and an American flag are on your right.Go to the second traffic light and make a slight turn to your left and stop. On your right you will see 6 blue awnings on the building on your right and a yellow and blue umbrella just past this building. On the blue part of the umbrella is where you will find Touchdown Moving against the flow of traffic, move forward into the intersection so you can turn right. Move forward two paces. Touchdown is on the middle of the red and blue text on the back of the tour bus parked on the right side of the intersection.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
The elevated roadway will be to your right.  Follow the road past the first two intersections.  You should now be in a very narrow road next to the bridge.
Turn right where the road dead ends.  Go past the 3-way intersection leading left and take the next left.  You should see scaffolding on your right.
Go straight through the next intersection and stop just past the crosswalk.
Touchdown is hiding on the yellow newspaper box to your left. Go in the same direction as traffic.  There will be scaffolding to your left.  Move forward to the first intersection.  Turn right.  There will reddish brick buildings on either side of you.  Go to the next intersection.  Turn right again.  There will be a white brick building to your left.  Move down this street.  You will shortly see a long, green awning on your left.  Stop just after you pass this awning.  Turn 90 degrees to your left to face this awning.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the white numbers on the end of this awning.   Turn so that you're facing the same way that the cars are driving. Go straight until the next intersection, then turn left. At the next intersection, turn left again. As you enter this street, there will be a fire hydrant on the left. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
You should see scaffolding on your left.
Turn right at the next intersection and you will see long rows over green awnings on the left on two different floors.
Go straight through the next intersection and you should see scaffolding ahead on the right.
Turn right at the next intersection when the orange and white barrier ends.
Once you do you'll see green retaining walls on the right.  Moving out of the intersection you should see a large orange and white barrier cone on the left near a long row of silver poles.  Touchdown is sitting on the cone. Follow the direction the traffic is going.  Go until the first intersection you come to. Turn right at the intersection. There should be a black wrought iron fence on your right side and continue down the street. Stop before the crosswalk and intersection, on the left corner is a blue mailbox near the crosswalk. The touchdown is on top of the mailbox. Turn to move in the direction of the cars. Go straight until the green restaurant is directly to your right and the pile of trash is directly to your left. Just before you reach to words painted on the street. Touchdown is in the center of the X on the street. Follow the flow of traffic and turn left at the first intersection. Continue forward and turn left at the next intersection. Go straight and stop once you read the next intersection. The touchdown is the center of the logo for the bank across the street on the right.  Follow traffic down the wider road, where the building with the huge pink banner is to your right and the one showing an anthropomorphic mouse jutting out of the windows is on your left.  Proceed to the intersection and go right.

Walk until you have a red fence on your right, and stop when the single tree in front of that red fence is directly to your right. Turn to face your left. You should see four pairs of glass doors, and a single metal barrier pipe in front of you (flanked on either side by an identical one some distance apart).  

Touchdown is sitting on top of this greyish brown metal pipe in front of the doors.
 So you're going to want to face the stop sign and then instantly take a right. You will see a trailer in front of you. Go down this road until you hit the intersection and then take a right. You should see a food shop on your right, and a dessert place on the left. Go down this street and you're going to come up to an intersection where there's two guys and a truck, you just keep going past that. You will see a brown truck up ahead. As you pass the truck, on the left you will see a business with a bunch of windows. As you get up there, you were see a wooden door. Your touchdown is in the middle on the sign that's on the tree closest to the brown door.  Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street.  Go forward to the first intersection you come to, and turn left.  Go one short block and turn left at the intersection.  You'll come to an orange and white construction barrier on your left side.  Move so you're just past the end of that barrier, and then stop (there's more barriers ahead, but stop at this first gap).  Look near the building on your right, and you'll see a small fire hydrant that is gray and green (it's not a standard fire hydrant like you'd find at the corner, and it's right at the base of the building).  The bear is on top of this little hydrant. Orient yourself so that the brick wall is to your right.  Go to the intersection and turn right.  There will now be an empty lot on your right and a grassy area on your left.  Head to the next intersection.  You'll see some green plywood and scaffolding at this intersection.  Turn right and immediately stop.  You should be standing in the crosswalk at this point.  On your right will be a yellow newspaper box next to a blue mailbox.  Touchdown is on top of the yellow newspaper box.   Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic, and head to the nearest intersection.  Turn right.  Then take the next right.  There is a building with a vertical blue sign on the left.  Stop directly in front of the blue sign.  There is a yellow wheel in the window.  The bear is in the middle  Put the court with the tall black fences ahead on your right. Move forward. Keep going forward around the bend. Take a right at the first intersection you reach. You will past a bunch of parked cars. To the right, Touchdown is on the yellow curb next to some garbage and a fire hydrant with graffiti on it, in front of what looks like a four story school building. You are right next to an intersection, go to the middle of the intersection and make a right. The building on your left will have a green in the signage and to your right is a median with almost bare trees. Go straight through the close by crosswalk. Go straight through the next intersection, you will have yellow with red signage on both sides of you. At the next intersection you will make a right. The building on your left is green and the building to your right has a yellow with red awning. At the next intersection, make another right and then stop in the crosswalk. Turn to the left and you will see a red brick wall with a black fence on top, near the corner is a black with white sign. Touchdown is in the center of this sign.  Align yourself with traffic and walk forward to an intersection. Take a left here. Continue forward to a four way intersection. Take a left here. Walk forward down this road until you see a clock hanging from a storefront on your right. Touchdown is in the center of the clock.  You are on a one way road, go with the flow of traffic. Go straight through the next intersection. At the next intersection, make a left. At the next intersection you will make another left. At the next intersection, stop in the middle of it. You will see a red, white, and blue flag hanging on your right. Touchdown is at the tip of the pole holding the flag up.  Go into the intersection and go right. 
Go straight at the next intersection. A large set of basketball courts will be on the left.
Keep straight at the next intersection. 
Stop when your all the way pass the building with the long green awing on your right next to the mail truck.
On the right, in front of you is a bright red fire hydrant. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant.
 Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
The green awning will be on your right.
Turn right at the next intersection.
There should be a red lane on your right.
Turn right at the next intersection.
You will see a phone booth to your left.
Stop when you get to a business with a bird painted on the wall outside.  Touchdown is in the middle of this birds chest. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  You should have a dark green doorway on the right and a couple green awnings to the left.
Head down this road and turn left at the first intersection.  After you turn, you should see a yellow and orange pole out in the distance with steam pouring out of it. When you get to the intersection with this steaming pole, turn left.
When you get to the end of the scaffolding, you will find Touchdown hiding on a brown security camera above the scaffolding on a brick wall. Turn until you are facing the intersection. Take a right at this intersection. Head down this street and take a right at the next intersection. Head down this street until you come to the next intersection. Take a right here. Head down this street and stop at the intersection with a woman with a blue yoga mat. Touchdown is on top of the trashcan beside her. Turn so you are traveling in the same direction as traffic. There will be a small park on your left. Go straight.Keep going straight at the light. At the next light take a left. There will be a small park on your right. Go straight until the next light, and take a left here. Stop at the next intersection.  There is a trashcan on the corner of the street on your right side. Touchdown is sitting on top of that trashcan. It is the correct one if you can see 2 white vans parked behind it.  Turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  The scaffolding should be on your right.  Walk forward and stop in the intersection.

Turn to your left.  A building with red letters in its windows should be on your right.    Walk down this wide road, keeping the building with the red letters on your right.  Stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to.    

Turn left to look down a narrow street.  There should be a small shop with a greenish-yellow sign on the right of this street. Walk down that narrow street.  You will pass a limo parked in front of a building on your right.  Go forward a bit further, pass some scaffolding and a large parked truck.  

You will soon see a dark red/maroon awning hanging over the sidewalk on your right (just next to a blue and white striped awning).  Touchdown is sitting at the peak of this triangular red awning, at the front edge closest to the street. Go with traffic to the light and go left.  Stop just before the crosswalk before the next light.  If you look to the right, you should see tables with orange chairs, and be staring straight into the window of the grey building.

Rotate left until you see the hydrant between two red pipes.  Touchdown sits atop it. Face away from the graffiti. It should be behind you, to your right. Now walk straight, past the 3 way intersection shortly after. Keep going, past the scaffolding on your left. Right after it, at the next intersection, make a right. There will be a tall building currently being built to your right. Go past the intersection before it. You'll see some orange and white barriers on either side of you. Keep going until you are a little past the tall under-construction building. If you turn to the left, you will see a flowering plant on the lamp-post. Touchdown is in the center of it.  Align yourself so that the intersection is behind you. The other traffic lane should be to your left. Take the first left turn you come across and keep going straight through on this road after the short intersection.

you'll ignore the first right turn, and take the first left turn, with the pedestrian sign in front of the turn.

Head down this road until you just pass the blue door with the blue fence in front of it. Behind the blue fence on your left is a traffic cone. Touchdown is on the tip of it. Follow traffic and go through the light.  Stop just before the long black vertical banner with white letters and an orange circle with a black arrow on the left --- but when you're even with the doors on the left of the building before it.
Touchdown is in the circle with the arrow. Turn around till you are facing the same direction as traffic.  Blue bikes should be parked on your left.  Walk ahead. Walk past multiple flags hanging on a building to your right. At the first intersection you come to, go right. Continue down this multi lane one way street in the correct direction. Turn right at the next intersection you come to. There should be red awnings on the building to your left and a blue and red awning coming up on your right. Keep walking, seeing a long green roof over some construction pipes on the sidewalk ahead on your right. Before reaching the green roof, turn and look to your right. Stand facing a brown wooden door with 3 different window openings, one of the the other. Touchdown is sitting on the ground right smack in the middle of the front of the door, leaning against it. Turn so the green construction is on your left.  Proceed forward and travel under the bridge overpasses ahead.  Proceed through the intersection and down this road until you reach the next big intersection where there is a store on the corner with a red sign on a grey background.  Turn right and follow this road a short way to the next intersection and turn right.  Stop just as you enter that street.  Look to your right and there is a building with red brick and thick white framed windows.  On the sidewalk corner there is a single black fire hydrant.  Touchdown is sitting on top of that hydrant. Go with traffic flow to the first corner and turn right. 

Still with traffic flow go to the next corner and turn right. When you turn there is a light green awning on your left with white lettering and brown awnings to your right with white lettering. 

Go down this block, passing a green awning on your left. 
Just down from that on your right is a yellow front building. 
Beyond that a bit is an American flag hanging on the left. 
Beyond that are two brown awnings on the left.
Further down from that is a yellow dumpster on the left in front of a two tone beige/tan building that is lighter on the bottom than the top. Where that two tone building ends is a green mailbox white white graffiti painted on it on the left. Touchdown is on top of that green mailbox.

 You're starting out in an intersection.  Look around down each street until you find a green pedestrian skyway/bridge connecting the upper floors of two buildings (it passes over the street, and you have to look several stories up).  Once you've found that, turn so that green skyway is at your back.  Go forward out of the intersection, and go straight through the first intersection you come to. 
 Now continue to the end of this block.  Turn right. 
On this block you'll have construction scaffolding on your right, an a building with a gold entryway on your left.  Go to the other end of this short block, and stop when you're right in the middle of the intersection.  The store on the corner just behind you to your right is very brightly colored, with a purple and orange striped awning.  Out front, this store has a green sign on a stand.  The bear is in the center of this sign. Turn so you'll be walking the same direction the cars are going on this street.  Go to the intersection just ahead of you and turn right.  Go the short 1 block to the next intersection, and turn right. You'll pass what looks like maybe a basketball court on your right, then apartments, then an open park-looking area behind an iron fence.  Once you're past the garden/park, start watching for a bright yellow school crossing sign on the right side of the street.  When you're even with that sign, look to the left and see a whole bunch of gray and blue trash cans along the side of the building.  Teh bear is on the left-most trash can near the back. Position yourself so the black fence is on your right hand side.
Take a right at the first street you come across.
Go down the street passed the black dumpster with graffiti on it.
Take a right at the next intersection.
Go forward, you'll pass a red coffee and tea shop on the left.
Take a right at the next street.
Right after you make this turn, you'll see a store on the right hand side painted green.
Above the rightmost plant you will see a wooden rectangle, a frame.
The touchdown is in the center of this wooden rectangle. Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. There should be a fenced-in playground to your right. Move forward, passing through a three-way intersection (another lane merges into the one you're on).

2. Keep moving forward, passing another three-way intersection. When you reach the next intersection (another three-way), take a right.

3. When you reorient yourself, you should be looking down a one-way street with a large brick building with round balconies to your right. Your destination is near. Keep an eye on the lamppost on the right side of the road.

4. Stop when you're standing immediately behind and to the left of a black car beneath the lamppost. Near the lamppost, there should be a padlocked gate with a set of steps beyond it. Touchdown is sitting on the padlock.

Good luck! :) Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Move ahead to the intersection, and turn left. Immediately you will be able to turn the opposite direction. Do so, so it will be as if you turned right from the original street. Continue in this direction and soon there will be a 4-way intersection; turn right.

Continue, passing straight through two 3-way intersections. Just after the second is a 4-way intersection. Turn right and stop.Ahead of you on the left is a pole with a small red sign. Touchdown is on that sign. Face the direction of the traffic and make a quick left. Go to the end of the street and make a left at the first traffic light. Go straight and stop at the first traffic light and look to your left. Underneath the pedestrian walk sign there is a garbage can. Touchdown is to the left of the garbage can. Go with traffic to the light and go right. Go right again at the next light.

There will be many open roll up doors with yellow bollards in front of them to your left.  Stop when you pass that building, and you're standing such that you see a closed metal roll-up door on your right, in a long building with beige bricks and no real features.  Rotate slightly left and look up.  Far away, on top of a red brick building, is a water tower.  

Touchdown is atop the point of the water storage tank on the roof of the red brick building ahead and to the left. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Go straight through the next intersection that has a yellow retaining cement wall ahead.  Hang a left at the next intersection and you should see a green awning jutting out ahead on the left.  Head down this road until you pass a brown awning jutting out towards the street on your left.  You will find stairs up to a door on the left just past that awning.  Touchdown is hiding on the light fixture on the right side of that doorway. Turn to travel with the flow of traffic. Take a right at the first intersection. At the next intersection take another right. As you travel up the block, keep an eye out for a pink banner on the right. After you pass the pink banner there is a parking lot on your right. stop right before you reach the second open gate to this parking lot. 

The 2nd parking lot gate has a big white sign on it. The touchdown is right in the middle of the white sign. 
 Follow traffic and go right at the first time you can. Go right again at the end of the block, where there'll be two stop signs and red bricks on either side of you, 
 and then right at the light, and make another right at the end of the block.

The building to your left should be brick with red awnings.  Rotate left to face down the street to the left of it, and you'll see a trash can behind the street sign pole. Touchdown sits atop it. Turn and go with the flow of traffic. At the first traffic light turn left so that you are going under  A pedestrian bridge. At the next traffic light turn left again.Just as you go past the front of a store that is outlined in Yellow you will see a parking garage door.Touchdown is sitting on the ground between the yellow part of the building and the yellow line painted on the cement of the garage door Turn around so that you are facing the street with three trash cans on the right side of the street. The cans have different colored lids - blue, black, and green. They are right next to a brick building with an iron fence around it. When you reach the intersection, turn right. Continue going straight. You'll see a blue store next to a yellow store on your right. Keep going straight. When you get to the intersection, turn right. About halfway down the block, there will be a fenced basketball court on your right and two tattoo parlors on your left. In front of the basketball court, there is a small trash can with a black bag. Touchdown is sitting on top of the trash can.  Turn so you are facing the same direction as traffic .

Travel ahead to the traffic light to the dead end.

Turn right here.
There is a brick building on the right and storefronts to the left.
Proceed down this short block to the intersection and .

Turn Right
green wooden gate to your left, go straight.
Proceed down this street keeping an eye to the right side.

Notice the red dumpster on the right side.
Pass the dumpster and continuing looking towards your right, see a lime green sign just ahead with two human figures on it.

Touchdown is on that sign.



 Head in the direction of traffic.  There will be a hole in the roadway with ladders in it on your left.  
Go straight at the first intersection you reach; turn right at the second.  You will still be going with the flow of traffic and there will be a green awning up ahead on your right.  
Head to the next intersection and turn right again.  Stop shortly after you exit the intersection, stopping when the green awning is off to the right of you.
Touchdown is sitting on this awning, in front of the white numbers that are on the awning's end.   Follow traffic to the end of the block and go left. Go left again at the end of the next block. The road splits, but take whichever way, until the next intersection, where you'll go left.  You should now be on a one way street, with scaffolding and a long blue dumpster on your right.

Follow the street until you see a gap in the blue scaffolding now on your left, just before you read the two stop signs at the intersection. Looking ahead of you and left, you will see a fire hydrant with a blue cap, a white stripe, and a red body. Touchdown is sitting on the blue cap. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, and head down to the intersection. You may have to go backward, and then back to straight the way you are headed. Do not take any actual turns until you've crossed the overpass. 

At the first intersection, make a left. This road is a bit long, but you should stop just after some construction barriers with scaffolding on your right. A couple steps up, you should see a white worded sign with a blue symbol twice, but our aim is the red awning that should be in front of us.

In front of the red awning, to the right of a blue sign, you should see a bike leaning against a fence encasement for a tree. Touchdown is sitting on the left handlebar of the bike. Put the rental bikes behind you and head straight.  Go through one intersection and continue.    At the next intersection, turn right.  Take a few steps then look right.  There is a fire hydrant with something pink on top.  The bear is on top. Orient yourself such that you're going with traffic and there is scaffolding on both sides of you.  Go straight through the first intersection.  Go left at the second one.  There will now be a row of black awnings on your right.  Head all the way down this street to the next intersection.  Turn left again.  There will be an American flag up ahead on your right, near the next intersection. Head towards this flag.  As you near it, you'll see a red awning on your left.  Pass this awning, then stop.  Turn 90 degrees to your right.  There is a black and silver hydrant to the right of a trash can.  Touchdown is atop this hydrant.   Orient yourself so that the storefront with the metal bars and the yellow box is on your right. Walk down this street and skip the first intersection you come across. Take a right at the second intersection.  Walk forward and at the next intersection take another right. On your right will be a white storefront with red lettering and an orange cone in front. Touchdown is on top of the cone. Enter the intersection and turn left. Turn left at the light. There will be a point where scaffolding is on both sidewalks. The left portion will end before you stop. Pass a building on the left with a brown cage on the sidewalk, and then stop after passing a gallery of the left with an art piece of three men in the window. Touchdown is on the orange shirt of the one man in the art piece. Go WITH cars and RIGHT at the light. Go RIGHT at the next light, but! make sure you're on the 4-lane road with the alternating orange and white k-walls on the left in front of the chain-link fence.  STOP immediately after clearing the crosswalk. ROTATE LEFT.  There's a single orange arrow on a black board behind the chain-link fence.

FIND Touchdown at the tip of the orange arrow above the orange k-wall behind the fence. Follow the flow of traffic and turn left at the first intersection. Continue forward and stop after the next intersection. There is a yellow newspaper box across the street on the left side. The touchdown is the bottom of the box.  Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic, and head to the nearest intersection.  Turn left, then left again.  Follow this road to the next intersection.  At this intersection, turn left and take one step.  On the right side of the road you will see a vendor with two umbrellas.  There is a box on the ground with a chair by it.  The bear is in the chair.   Turn with the flow of cars and head to the nearest intersection.  Turn left.  Go through two intersections, then in the 3rd go left.  Follow this side road.  Look left.  Stop just before the subway entrance.  The bear is on the yellow circle with the letter R in it.   Face the huge American flag on the rounded building.  Enter the intersection and turn left.  The flag will now be on your right side.  Go to the next intersection and turn left again.  After you turn, you will have a chance to job to your right.  Do not take this; continue straight.  Go straight through the intersection, stopping immediately after you exit the intersection.  You should still be able to see the green stoplight at the top of your view.  To your left is an orange diamond-shaped sign.  Touchdown is in the middle of this sign.  Turn so the barriers are to your left. Turn right at the intersection directly in front of you. When you turn scaffolding is on your left. Go down this road, through the 3-way intersection about a block down, then turn right at the next intersection about another block from the 3-way. 

When you turn, there are multiple green awnings all for the same store on your left. On your right is a black awning with pink & white lettering, then a yellow awning, then another black awning with red and white lettering. This awning also has cup on it with what looks like steam coming from the top. Touchdown is on the cup, covering it up.  Orient yourself so there is a white and blue truck parked to your right and go forward. Turn right at the third intersection. Go forward and you will see a green van parked in front of a party store. Pass the van and stop in front of the mattress store on your right. There will be a bike with a brown seat parked in front of the store. The touchdown is in the center of the bike's rear wheel.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Turn right at the next intersection.
You'll see a small black awning on the right between the brick walls.
Turn right at the next intersection.  You will see a wooden ramp on the right.
You should see scaffolding ahead on the right.
Turn right at the next intersection when the scaffolding ends.
On the right a bit ahead, is a large open door with a ladder to the right of it.

Touchdown is on the bottom rung of the ladder.

 Turn yourself so you are entering the tunnel and start down the street.  Once you exit the tunnel, turn right at intersection.  You will see some construction barrels on your left and some yellow posts on your right and start down the street toward the large glass building directly in front of you.  As you approach the T crossing you will see a large green wall on your left and a pedestrian ramp on your right.  Turn right at T crossing.  Immediately after turning right, turn yourself so you are facing with traffic.  You will see a fire hydrant on the sidewalk to your right.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant. Go with the flow of traffic, you'll have scaffolding to your right and construction on your left.  When you get to the first intersection, turn left.  Go straight at the next intersection. When you get to the next corner, where the scaffolding ends- turn left.  On your right there's some scaffolding.  When you pass it, there's a store that has mannequins in the window.  Look for the red round sign in the window, Touchdown is on that red sign.  Going with the flow of traffic and the iron fence on your right, go to the first intersection and take a right. After you go through the next intersection, the business on the right hand side has circle after it's name on the sign.  Touchdown is hiding in that circle. Orient yourself to follow the flow of traffic and turn left at the first intersection. Continue forward and you will pass a large red/pink advertisement on your left. GO straight through one intersection and stop before the next. There will be a bike to your left on the sidewalk. The touchdown is in the middle of the front wheel. With traffic, go to the light and left. At the next light, go left again. At the light thereafter, take a final left.

There'll be scaffolding on your left. Go to the light to the other side, but stop before reaching the crosswalk there.

Rotate slight left, so you can see the olive colored mailbox on the left corner.  Touchdown sits center atop it. Turn to face the intersection. You should have a construction site ahead and to the right. Make an immediate left so that you're now walking down a street with a bike lane in the same direction as traffic. Walk to the end of the block.

Turn left again. You will now be walking down a brick lined street. The building on your right has patches of red paint on top of the red brick. Walk down one block again.

Turn left one more time. On your right will be a bike lane and scaffolding.

As you near the end of the block, look to the right. On the corner there is a shop with circular red signs and a white logo. Touchdown is on the sign closest to you.
 Turn to face the same direction as the traffic, with the scaffolding on your right. Go forward and make a right at the first intersection. Make your last right at the next intersection. There will now be a bus stop on your left, keep going forward a bit more and stop when you see a small red awning on your left. Touchdown is on the image at the end of the word on that red awning. Turn so the river is behind you, and the big pedestrian ramp with metal railings is on your right.  Go forward until you come to an intersection, and turn right.  After the turn you'll have a blue and white building on your right.  Go one short block to the next intersection, and turn right again.  Now you're headed back toward the river, though you can't really see it ahead yet.  The building on your right has a bronze-colored stripe along it.  Go forward, and on your left you'll be approaching a large, blocky, gray building with a big blue rectangle painted near the top.  Stop when you've just made it past the first corner of that gray building.  You'll be between a small blue door and a big blue garage door.  The bear is in the middle of the small blue door.  With the green entry canopy on your left, GO AGAINST traffic. GO RIGHT at the T-intersection as you deadend into a guardrail. Stay left as you go forward, so the concrete barrier is on your right, and you enter the main highway.

STOP just as you reach the bridge, before you're actually underneath it. ROTATE RIGHT.  You should see a tree dead in front of you, to the left of which is an American flag on one of the bridge parapets. 

FIND Touchdown atop the flag pole. Turn so you will be walking with the flow of traffic. There will be a US flag on your right. Go to the end of the block.

At the intersection, turn right and walk forward to the next intersection. Turn right again.

Now, you will have a brick red building with mustard yellow trim around the windows and doors to your right. Walk down this street.

On the left, you'll pass an open air parking lot. Don't pass the lot completely. Look ahead on the right for an awning that is faded purple with white writing on the lower right corner. Touchdown is on the pavement under that white writing.
 From the starting position, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the flow of traffic. Go straight until you reach a street light and intersection. At the light turn right down the one-way street. Continue down the street until you reach a brick building on your left side that has very large paintings and designs on it. On the opposite side of the street will be a stone building with very large windows just past some scaffolding. On the left side, in front of that brick building, you'll see some stairs down and a subway station. Above the stairs is a digital sign that's blue with white writing. Touchdown is on that sign. Turn and face the bridge.  Take a couple of steps forward and then turn left.  You should be able to see the top of the bridge from this direction.  Move forward.  When the road ends, turn left.  Stay facing the bridge until the don't walk hand signal is directly in from of you.  Bear in the palm of the hand.   Follow traffic, with the park to your left, and go right at the light. Stop just before the very weird looking black shop front that's the second to last building on the right, and rotate to face the building before it.  There's a light almost exactly center above the metal security door. Touchdown is atop that light. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic facing the intersection with the yellow metal plates on the road ahead in front of you. Enter the intersection and take a right. There should be a liquor store on your left and a brick building with a brown awning on the right. Continue forward to the next intersection and take a right. You should see a tan brick building with three black fire escapes on your right. Continue forward to the next intersection and take a right. You should see a florist to your right and several trees overhanging the road in front of you. Move forward and stop once you have gone past the crosswalk. Turn to your left and you will see a gray fire hydrant between two  gray poles. Touchdown is sitting at the base of the gray fire hydrant. Orient yourself to follow the flow of traffic. Go straight and turn left at the next intersection. Go forward and then go left again at the next intersection. There is a building with a green awning on your left. The touchdown is on the light above the double doors to the left of the awning.  Turn so that the trees are to your right. You will not be making any turns. Walk straight through two intersections. Keep going until you pass a purple and yellow awning to your left. There should be blue glass doors with flowers painted on them to the left and a long yellow awning to the right. Facing these awnings there should be two mailboxes right next each other. 

Touchdown is on top of the right mailbox. Align yourself with the flow of traffic and head down the ramp.  Take a left at the intersection, and another left shortly after. You have to make a bit of a curved u-turn at this left.

You should be down a street that has a lot of stone pillars in front of a large arch. You want to go through the arch against traffic. You'll head towards a blue overpass, and right before you go in to it, the first supporting pillar on your left will have numbers on it. Touchdown is on the numbers. Face oncoming traffic.  Go through one intersection, then turn left at the next.  The left is almost a backwards step.  There should now be a black building with blue on your right.  Go through one intersection.  Pass the orange ladder on your right.  Then look back at the ladder.  Bear is on top of cone with white stripes. Follow traffic and stop before the light, but after the last lamp post on your left before the light.

Touchdown is affixed to the circle that serves as the upper keystone of the arch in front of you. Turn so you'll be going with the flow of traffic.  Go straight, then turn left at the first intersection you come to.  Go straight through one intersection.  As you go down this block, keep an eye on the lamp posts on the right side.  You'll see one lamp post that has a hanging plant with pink flowers.  Move until you're even with that flowered plant.  The bear is right on top of the plant. Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Head to the nearest intersection.  Turn left. Take the next left, then the next left (There will be a red square on the right side of the street).   Pass the grey building on the left and stop in front of the next two big windows after.  Before the 1st window is a small grey square near the ground on the wall.  The bear is on the square. Follow traffic to the light and go right. [Interface issues, but it's possible.] Pass the subway entrance and arches of the building on your right and go almost to the end of the block.

Stop when you're even with the last red awning before the black awning before the final red awning on the right. Rotate right to face it.  There's a white circle with red flames on the black awning.  Touchdown melts within the fire. Position yourself where all the cars are facing the same direction. Head straight passing all of the parked vehicles. Your almost at the destination when you pass a blue sign on your right which is next to some infrastructure. Up ahead you should notice a street light in which should bring you to an intersection. At the intersection, make a right turn. Once you make that right turn, look at your surrounding and you should notice a green junction box perhaps attached to a pole on your right hand side. The touchdown is sitting on top of the junction box. Align yourself with the same way the traffic is parked. Follow this road all the way down through the curves, then take a right. In front of the zebra crossing, you should see a computer lab truck, Touchdown is on the front wheel of that truck. Orient yourself so that you're facing traffic. You should see blue bicycles to your left. 

Walk straight a few paces until you reach the first intersection. Turn left at this intersection. 

At the next intersection you'll see a tall brown building to your right. Continue straight through this intersection. 

At the next intersection you'll see a green building to your right and brown building to your left. Continue straight through this intersection. 

The next intersection you'll see a building with a blue awning to your left. Turn left at this intersection. You should see trees to your left and buildings to your right. 

At the very end of the building with the blue awning, there's a brick building with a gate surrounded by two brick rectangles with green triangles on top. Touchdown is placed on the top of the brick rectangle with the green triangle closest to you. 
 With bike rental station on the right, go to the first intersection and take a left turn. You'll have a red awning to your right and a white arched covering on the business to your right.  Go to the next intersection where this road ends.  Take a left turn.  You'll have a park to your right. At the next stop sign, turn right.  Go to the next intersection and there will see an american flag on your left hanging.  Touchdown is centered on this flag. Move in the direction of traffic and keep going straight through the intersection. Turn left at the next intersection and go straight. Pass the orange and white barriers that will be on your right. Pass the orange cones and stop before you reach the end of the street. Directly to your left will be a dumpster with plastic lids. On the left side of the dumpster is a sticker. Touchdown is on that sticker.  Turn around and align yourself with the flow of traffic. Ignore the first turn, and make a left, a u turn, at the next left. Turn around and go back the way you started. You should pass doors with three circles on them, and before the next set of circle doors, you'll see 2 yellow valves sticking out of the wall, between a leaveless tree and a street light. Touchdown is sitting on those yellow valves. Orient yourself to move in the same direction as the traffic.  Move forward to the end of the block and turn right at the intersection.  Go halfway down the block, and on your left you will see a dark grey, square post with a thin blue band close to the top next to a light grey lamp post.  Touchdown bear is sitting on top of the dark grey post.  With the brick building with red door and eave on your left, GO LEFT at the light. There should be a park on your right and the brick building with red eaves and door on your left. 

STOP after the third and final red entry canopy on your left. ROTATE LEFT to face it. FIND Touchdown horizontally and vertically centered in the red entryway canopy. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. You will go straight down this long block.  When you can barely see the next traffic light, on your right will be a parking garage that you can enter.  If you get to the store on the right corner with a pink logo, you went to far.  You'll enter this parking garage after barely going past it.  Once you're in the parking garage, notice that there's murals on the left hand side.  The second mural is of the statue of liberty and the moon.  Touchdown is on the torch of the statue of liberty. Allow yourself to be directed toward public parking. Take a right at the first intersection you reach, Touchdown is on a trash can immediately on your left. Go in the direction that places the yellow school bus to your left and the large passenger bus with green to your right. Go straight through the first intersection and pass through the crosswalk with the traffic light. The navigation gets a little tricky here, you will veer to the left and magically appear on another street then you will have the option to veer back to the right to get back on the proper street. Once you have made it through those weird veers you will come up to a four way intersection, you will stop in the middle of this intersection. On the corner ahead to the right is a building that has some circular signage amongst it's store front and on the corner ahead to the left are some very large signs, one that has a lady with a crown. Turn to the corner that has the lady with the crown. At the very corner there is a traffic light pole that has the road signs on it. Touchdown is at the very base of this pole. Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street and the building with the tan fire escapes is on your left.  Go forward until you're nearly at the other end of the block.  Watch on the left for the building with the blue umbrella near the corner.  Before you get to that blue umbrella there is a fire hydrant.  Stop before you're even with the fire hydrant (you're nearly even with it).  The bear is on the hydrant.  Turn so you are going with traffic down the one way street. At the first intersection there will be an orange store front on your right. Go straight. At the next light go straight. Stop behind the power truck with a stack of orange cones on the back. Touch down is sitting on top of the stack of cones.  Turn so the dark red flags are on your right and you can go with the flow of traffic down this long road.  Turn right at the first intersection.  The store on your right has a white sign with a green stripe on top and bottom.  Follow this street to the next intersection and turn right.  You'll now have green construction on your left.  Follow this road a short way, watching on the left for orange construction netting.  Near the end of the orange netting is a black arrow then a square of wood.  The arrow is pointing directly at Touchdown! Start with the flow of the traffic. Go to the intersection and take a left. You should see a black building to you left, followed by a yellow building, following by a black and red one. Your touchdown will be the middle of the air conditioner in the yellow building.  Turn so that an orange sign is on the left, and the building under construction is on your left. Head down that street with traffic.
Head down the road until you come to the four way intersection with a store that has a red awning across the street. Take a right in front of that store. Head down the street a short distance until you are almost at the traffic light. There is a store with a red awning and a blue umbrella outside. Touchdown is on top of the blue umbrella. Face the direction so that the yellow boards on the building are on your left. There will be a red canopy with white letters on your right. Go straight.  Pass through the intersection and pass the building with American flags. Pass through the next intersection. It will curve you, just click straight. Right after the curve it won't let you go straight. turn yourself to face left facing the front of the parked cars. Go straight. There will be buildings on both sides and it will be a one way street which you are going the wrong way. But keep going straight. You will come to an intersection with a pizza place on your left it will have a red canopy. Take a right at the intersection. Go straight. You will see a green canopy on your left with a leaf on it. Keep going straight. At this very next intersection take a right. You will be facing traffic again. There will be a cream colored building to your right and a brick red one to the left. The brick building will have a white window unit next to a rain gutter. Touchdown is in the center of the window ac unit.  Align yourself so the black trash bags are on your right, and head up to the intersection to make a right. Head up to almost the next intersection and stop just before the large painted mural on the building to your left. Touchdown is in the middle of the flower painted on the wall. Turn and follow traffic down the street. Construction with green boards on your right.  You will pass a dumpster with a blue tarp on your right.  At the first intersection turn left. There is a white building on your right. Turn left at the intersection. You will see on your left  a green overhang on a store. Touchdown is sitting on the top  of the mailbox before the store on the left.  Follow traffic to the light and go left, and go left again at the second light after you turned.  The park behind a low red brick wall topped with a black fence should be to your left.   Stop just before the last building on the right, a shop with a huge black sign band and white dimensional letters.

Rotate right. You should be looking at a blank white wall that's part of a shop with a white sign band and blue dimensional letters.  

Touchdown is centered on the olive mailbox slightly to your left. Orient yourself so you are moving against the flow of traffic (you should be in the lane of oncoming traffic).  There will be a purple awning on your right and a black awning with red lettering on your left.
Turn left at the next intersection just before the bridge.
Turn left at the next intersection that dead ends with a black gate and some blue signs.
Go forward and stop when you are next to a black fire hydrant.  Touchdown is at the base of the fire hydrant. Face the flow of the traffic and stay on the left side and make a left at the traffic light. Make sure you are going with the flow of traffic. Pass the first traffic light and stop when you get to the red store awning which is next to the white store sign on your right. Touchdown is on the front of the smaller red awning. If you are in the proper position there is a gray building to your left. There'll be a large whitish colored building to your right and has gray gated doors. Once you're in position please continue straight. There will be an intersection where you can turn left or go straight, please continue straight. You will pass a green fence and several advertisements. They are on the right.
At the next intersection please turn right. On the left you will see a brick building it is a bluish grayish color and has boxes out front of it.
On the right you will see a white with orange striped set of construction barriers with a gray wall with advertisements on top of them. Please remain straight.
On your right you will run into a piece of fence that has a green sheet over it. You will see several holes in the bottom of it. Touchdown is sitting directly in front of the first hole. Turn yourself so that you are going against traffic. There should be a small red banner to your right. Go straight in this road. Go up to the intersection in front of you and make a left turn. There will be a building with really tall windows to your right. Go straight until you get to the next intersection. At the intersection, make another left turn. There will be subway entrances on either side of you. You will continue down this road. You will go a ways down this road. Be looking to your left for three green mailboxes standing side by side. Right after the mailboxes there will be a gray fire hydrant on your left. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant.  Orient yourself so that the building with the red flag is to your left. Go straight down this road. When you come to the second traffic light, make a right turn. After you turn, on your right, just past the mailbox, is a rectangular structure, possibly an advertising board. Turn to face the structure and Touchdown is sitting on top of it  Turn so you are heading with the flow of traffic.  Take the first right.  Go under the bridge, then enter the intersection.  You will need to go right, its a pain.  If you did it right you should the side of a building with dark bricks on the bottom and tan on the top.  There is a random light on the side of the building in the tan part.  The bear is  on it. Orient yourself so that this is a building with a red stripe to your right.  Head down this street to the first stoplight. Turn right.  There will be some small trees to your right as well as a store with a winter scene painted on the windows.  Pass the first of these small trees and stop.  Turn to your right and look slightly down.  There is a fire hydrant.  Touchdown is sitting atop this hydrant.   Turn until the black metal fence and tree is to your left and the green awnings are to your right. Walk straight through the intersection until you reach a side street that is blocked off by two orange cones. Turn right down this side street. Walk past the next side street that is on your left. Walk past the red awning on your right and stop. There should be a blue playground on your right. There should be a red fire hydrant in front of you to the right. Touchdown is placed at the base of the fire hydrant. Turn so that the green wall is on your left and the chain link fence is on your right. Keep walking straight down the road until you reach the large three way intersection. There should be a large glass building across from you. Turn left at this intersection. The glass building should now be on your right. Walk forward to the next intersection and stop right before the crosswalk. Face right. You should see a small pipe in the sidewalk that is partially painted blue and yellow. Touchdown is on top of this pipe. Orient yourself so you are falling slow traffic with the pile of trash bags to your right, continue forward to the intersection and take a right, You should see two green construction dumpsters on your right, continue forward to the next intersection and take another right, You should see a white van on your left and a small orange sign  on a pole to the right, continue forward to the next intersection and take a right, You should see two green and white scissor lifts on your left, Continue forward to the next intersection and take a right, You should see a fire hydrant to your left and a trash bag next to a tree on the right, click the fire hydrant to find touchdown. Turn so the green wall is on your left and go into the intersection. Make a right turn. There are a lot of green awnings on the left side. Go straight one block and make another right turn. There are boarded up windows on the right side. Go all the way down this longer block then make another right turn at the 3 way intersection you come to. It will take you down and under for a moment. When you are about midway underneath the bridge come to a stop. You should still be under it and if you turn left you will see a vertical line all the way down the wall from the top to bottom. Touchdown is at the bottom of this line where it meets the road.  Turn to where the parking garage is on your left. Go straight and turn right on the first street to your right. Go straight again and turn right at the first street. At this point, there should be a food stand on your right. Continue straight all the way to the end of this street. Look straight and you should see an orange barrier in front of some construction. The bear is on the top-right corner of the barrier.  Go with the flow of traffic and take a right at the intersection. You should see red and green building on the left then go straight until the intersection and then take a right. Go a little ways up and then take another right. You're going to hit another intersection but before you do, look to the right. You will see a mail bin. Your touchdown is on the top middle of that.  Turn yourself so you are facing down a narrow tree lined one way street.  A grey sign will appear on your right and head down that street. You will pass a grouping of traffic safety barriers on your right. Continue going straight.  As long as you started out correctly, no further turns are required.You should pass a double blue door on your right as you continue.  then a metal fire escape on your left.  A Fenced in basketball court playground will be on your right as you go.  Travel through the intersection to the crosswalk.  Touchdown will be on your right, on the sidewalk between to orange safety cones. With scaffolding on the left go forward, into oncoming traffic. Go right at the light. Scaffolding with k-walls will be to the left. Proceed until reaching the small fenced in park on the right at the end of the street. Rotate right.  Confirm directly ahead is the sole tree in the park.

Touchdown sits atop the small yellow bird house on the tree behind the black fence in the small park. Turn so that you are facing the opening between the two road dividers with trees. Step through the division and go straight through the intersection down the road. You should pass a bunch of garbage bags on your left. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. You should see a green box on the light post on the corner to your front left. Walk straight through the next two intersections. Stop once you get to the orange and white dividers to your left. Face the dividers. You should see a black fire hydrant in front of you to the right. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant. Get situated so the left corner has a brown side and a side with a mural on it. The building on the right doesn't have a store front or awnings. There is a lot of blue further down the street on the left too. Go straight one block. Go all the way into the first intersection and make a right turn.  That same building that isn't stores is on your right again and now there is a green wooden fence area on the left side. You won't go far down this street. Move forward. Look on the right side. You will go until you are almost next to the 5th blue door on the right. Directly across from that is a black fire hydrant. It will be just slightly ahead of your position. Touchdown is on that hydrant.  Turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  Walk straight down the road, and stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to.    Turn to your right, and then continue down this road. Stop before you enter the next intersection you come to.  Turn to your right, and you should see a black and white sign with an arrow.  The arrow points directly toward Touchdown the Bear.  If you can see the sign, but not the bear, just take one more step forward. Turn to face traffic, then go to the end of the block. There should be an orange and white cylinder on your right. turn right here, and walk to the end of the block again. There should be a lot of traffic cylinders on your left--turn right again. Now go forward until you get the chance to take a left, and then take it. Before you even get out of the intersection, you should see a cafe on  the right with a fire hydrant in front of it. Touchdown is on that hydrant. First orient yourself so that the dark gray building is on your right and the white building with the hedges out front is on the left. You'll be on a one way street going with the traffic. Walk down this street and at the intersection, turn right. There will be a store with green awning on your left and a restaurant with a red awning on your right. You'l be going with traffic. Go through the intersection and continue straight. At the intersection, turn left. There will be a building with white windows on your right after you make the left turn. Walk a little down this street. You'll see a bike rack on the left. Directly across the street on your right will be black garage type door with an open gate to the right. Touchdown will be sitting in front of the door. Align yourself with the flow of traffic. Follow this road until the first turn, and make a left. Ignore the first and second intersection, and continue down the road. Four steps after the second intersecction, you should see a famous sandwich shop with a big yellow sign. Touchdown is in the white part of the middle logo of the sign. Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Continue down this street (You will go through the intersection you are standing in).  Take the next left.  Then take the next left.  Before you enter the next intersection look left.  There are some yellow, orange, and red boxes.  To the left of them is a tree.  Stand across from this tree.  The bear is on the ground at the trunk. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Turn left at the next intersection.  When you do you'll see a brick building on your left with a bright blue door.  Go down to the next intersection and turn left again.  When you'll see blue doors on your left and a glass building to the right.

Go forward keeping an eye on the buildings to the left.  You'll see a silver/grey grate to your left with a red and white sign in the middle of it and a large grey circle.

Touchdown is on the red/white sign on this grated gate. Go with the flow of traffic.  Go straight.  It's buggy here-- just keep using your arrow key to go straight until you reach an intersection.  Turn right.  There will be purple awnings on your left and scaffolding on your right.  Go to the next intersection and turn right again.  There will be red bus lanes on both sides of you.  Move down this street just a bit, watching for some scaffolding to start on your left side. You'll then see a red dumpster in front of this scaffolding.  Stop when the red dumpster is in your view off to your left.  Turn 90 degrees to your right.  You will be facing a metal bench.  Touchdown is sitting on the middle seat of this bench.   Turn and follow traffic down the street. There will be a blue awning on your right. Turn right at the intersection. There will be a brown awning to your left. And up ahead is 4 red awnings on the right. Turn right at the intersection.  A tan building on your right and red brick on the left. Turn left at next intersection.  There is scaffolding on your right with a blue awning. Turn right at the next intersection. There will be a blue mailbox on your right. Touchdown is sitting on top.  When you start there should be a white building on your left with a high rise beside it which towers above. On the right should be a tall building that appears to be made of brick with blue squares under the windows and red doors.
Now turn to your right and head toward the building mentioned above with the red doors.
You will then make a slight right which will take you the opposite direction on the road that is parallel to the one you started on. If your on the correct road then you will see the road you started on on your right and on the left you will see the building with the blue blocks under the windows. You will now be heading straight and should see a black fence on your left that is going around a playground. On the right is a white building.
Continue straight until you reach the first intersection. Now make a right.
Continue straight through the next intersection.
After walking a little bit you will see a very short building that has a slanted roof on your left. In the background you can see a high rise, and there is a black fence connected to the side of the short building. On the right there is fencing with razor wire running along top.
Touch down will be on your left and he is on top of the short building directly on top of a square vent on the top of the building. If you get to the overhead bridges you have gone too far.


 If you are in the correct position you are in a bridge and you are facing the same way the traffic goes. To your right you will see some construction with orange sheets in a building. To your left you will see a link. Please head straight. Eventually you will come to a building on your right hand side that is gray and white colored with a blue sign in the front. You will still continue straight. When you get to the end of this building you will notice there are several windows. Touchdown is in front of the last window to the left in the bottom corner sitting on the windowsill. So you are going to start with the flow of traffic. On the left is a bunch of graffiti and the right has nothing. Go to the intersection and take a left. Now on your left you should see a white sign with goldish letters and a gold border. On the right is a newer building with a ton of windows.  Go down to the next intersection and take a left. You should see a bunch of blue netting on top of the left bulding. Go to the next intersection and take another left. You should see scaffolding on your left now. Go to the intersection and take a right. You should see two different colored red bricks on your right. You should see a trash bag on the ground. Your touchdown is the middle of it.  Orient yourself so you are facing oncoming traffic and go forward to the intersection.  At this intersection, turn right and go forward.  And turn left as soon as you can, the goal is to end up continuing down the divided street, now with the flow of traffic instead of against it.  You know you're facing the right way when you're travelling in the same direction of the traffic, and there's a store on your left with a yellow awning and red and blue markings.  Go down this street to the next intersection.  Turn left and cross the other direction of traffic and continue down the road.  At the next intersection turn left and being walking down the block.  Keep an eye out for a multicolored heart painted on a black garage door on your right.  Stop just past that heart and turn to your right to look at it.  Touchdown is in the middle of the heart. Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street.  Go forward until you come to an intersection, and go straight through that.  Then you'll have construction scaffolding on your right.  Go a short distance to the next intersection, and turn right.  You'll end up with some festival tents (white) on your left.  You'll pass one tent, then a row of cement planters with plants in them. Go a tad forward after the planters, until you're even with a tent that looks narrower than the others (more rectangular).    There is a black and red strip on the ground covering some power cords running from this tent to the next one.  The bear is in the center of that red and black strip. Turn yourself so that the building with the blue awning is to your left. Go straight down this road until you come to the intersection. You will make a right turn down a one way road. You will go through one intersection. After you go through the intersection look to your right. You will see a sculpture that looks like two tall ovals crossed. In front of that sculpture is a pole with a basket hanging from it. Touchdown is sitting in that basket.  
Turn right so you are facing the same direction as the traffic. Go straight down the road until you reach the first intersection and turn right.  Follow that road to the first intersection and turn right.  Youll have green construction on your left now. Follow that road along and you will find some orange and white construction barriers on your left.  Turn right at the intersection after the barriers.  Look to the right and you will see a garbage can near the light post on the corner.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the garbage can. Follow the direction of traffic, passing a park on your left. At the first intersection make a right.  The next intersection has two building on the left with yellow signs. Go straight through this intersection. The next intersection has a yellow sign with a black arrow pointing to the right. Make a right turn here, following the flow of traffic. On the right there is a store with a green sign, then a store with a rad and white sign, then a store with a long yellow sign and a red awning. Target is sitting on top of the red awning, right in the middle. From your starting point, turn around so that the scaffolding is on your left.  Walk forward and stop in the first intersection you come to.  Turn to your left, so that you can see the building with scaffolding on the left side of a road, and then walk forward down that road.  You should see a big white truck, parked on the left.  Walk straight and then stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to.  Turn to your left, and you should see a tiny, pink building on the sidewalk.  Walk down this road, and look up so that you can see a huge advertising poster with a cell phone on it.  Walk forward, and you should see Touchdown on the seat of the last blue bicycle on the left. Turn so that you're facing the same way that the cars are driving. Go forward to the next intersection and continue straight. Continue until the next intersection. There will be an orange pipe on your right with steam coming out. Touchdown is sitting on top of that pipe. Turn so that the blue doors are to your left. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. There should be a red awning to your right. Walk through the next intersection. Stop past the crosswalk on the other side. Face right. There should be a brown brick building in front of you with white strips of brick. To your right is a fire hydrant. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant. Turn toward the intersection you are almost in. Enter it and make a right turn. You'll see a theatre sign on the right side. Go straight one block. Make another right turn. There is a line of blue bikes on your left side. Go straight down this longer block. At the next intersection make another right. The building on the left side has a light brown overhang. Go straight one block. Don't go all the way into the intersection. Look to your left and you'll see a bunch of produce outside under an awning. There is a trashcan near that on the corner. Touchdown is on top of that trashcan.  Orient yourself so that there are red brick buildings on both sides of you and there is a store with a green awning to your right.   Go to the first intersection and turn right.  There will be black and white striped awnings to your left.   Go to the next intersection and turn right again.  There will be red awnings on both sides of the street.  Go to the next intersection.  Stop immediately after you cross the first crosswalk.  Turn to your left.  There is a drab green post box with a rounded top.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this box, in the middle of the rounded top edge.   Turn and go in the same direction as traffic. Go straight across the intersection. When you get half way down the road, turn around and go back the way you came.  When you get to the intersection, go right. There will be a lot of potted green shrubs on your left.  Walk past them and go right at the next intersection. Walk down this street to the next intersection, walking into the middle of it. Stop and turn around, finding a corner storefront outlined in red. Looking at that store, find 3 garbage bins in front near the street.  They are green, brown and blue lidded. Touchdown is sitting on top of the green lidded one. Turn so your travelling with the flow of traffic. At the first intersection take a left. Keep an eye on the park to your left.  There will be a series of 3 garbage bins under a red sign. Stop when your directly in front of the sign.

Touchdown is in the middle of the red sign.  Go against traffic and right at the light and immediately right again, down the same street you were on, but on the other side of the median, still walking against traffic.

Stay left when you come to the on-ramp, so that you walk with the white bollards to your right.  

Walk until you're at the edge of the black fence and where it meets the smaller chainlink fence with orange netting, and can see ahead and to your left the two orange porta-potties with the white roofs. past the gate of the fence.  

Touchdown is impaled on the padlock at the end of the chain under the three signs on that gate. Orient yourself so that the red bus lane is on your right.  Go just a bit down the street, watching for a building on the left that looks striped-- red and light brown stripes.  There are trees with flowers planted at the bases of these trees.  Pass the first tree (pink flowers), the second tree (white flowers), and stop when the third tree (pink) is at the very, very left of you.  Turn to your left.  There is a black fire hydrant to the left of these pink flowers.  Touchdown is sitting on the sidewalk in front of this hydrant.   Head down the street towards the walkway going over the street Go under the walk way and past the first traffic light On your right side is a brown building with a red door. Touchdown is sitting in front of that door on the first step Turn so you have scaffolding on your left side only while there is a red awning on the right. Walk down the two way street to the next intersection.

Turn right so that a business with a green sign and gold letters and window boxes full of plants is on your left. Walk down to the end of the street. 

At the T junction, turn right. Walk one more block, keeping the park to your left.

Walk through the intersection, then stop. On your right is a row of yellow cars on the curb. Touchdown is on the handles of the double glass door of the business behind the yellow cars.  Align yourself with the flow of traffic, with a taxi in front of you and a transport truck on your left. At your first intersection, make a right. a few steps before the next intersecction, you should see groups of people sitting and eating outself. Touchdown is on the first brown umbrella table. Turn so the silver construction poles are to your left. You will see a traffic light up ahead. Go to the traffic light and make a right turn. Go straight until you come to the first traffic light on this street and make another right turn. There will be a building with glass walls and green trim on your left. Go straight down this road. You will go straight through the first traffic light you come to. On your left there will be construction poles. You will see a building that has a green awning. Just past that awning there are three arched windows. Turn to face the windows. Touchdown is sitting at the bottom in the middle of the center window. The window that is just to the right of the smaller window.  Go in the same direction as traffic. There will be scaffolding to your left.  Move forward to the first intersection.  Turn left.  There will be construction scaffolding on both sides of you.  Proceed to the next intersection.  Turn left again.  Proceed down the past the flags on your left.  After that you will see two stops signs.  Pass these as well.  On your left will be a big black building.  Pass these building.  You will see a overhang with lots of lights under it to your left.  Look up above the overhang.  There is an American flag.  Touchdown is sitting on the blue part of the flag.   Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  You should see a blue awning that looks burnt.
Head forward to the intersection and turn right.  You should be under a bridge with some red awnings ahead on the left.  Go forward to the next intersection pass the playground on the right, being careful not to turn left just before the playground and turn right.
The playground should now be on your right and some scaffolding on your left.
Head forward and turn right at the next intersection and head under the bridge.
When you're in the crosswalk and about to come out from under the bridge, you will find Touchdown in a black wire trashcan with a white trashbag in it.
 Turn so the big red building is on your right. Go straight one block. Take a right with the same red building to your right. Go straight at the first intersection you come to. Keep going straight again at the next intersection. You will pass lots of construction on the left side of the street. At the traffic light you will come to go straight and stop when you are just through the intersection. Touchdown is sitting on top of the stack of bricks on the sidewalk to your left.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic with the intersection right in front of you. Go into it and turn left.
You need to pass the 3-way intersection that goes to the right and turn left at the next intersection.  You will see a long row of cones when you do.
Go straight through the next intersection. You should have orange and white barriers on your right.
Turn left at the next intersection.  You'll see a long row of blue bikes on your right. Stop right before the scaffolding on the right.

Touchdown is on the last blue bike seat on your right.
 Follow the direction of the moving car until you arrive at an intersection in which you should make a right turn. Continue going straight passing all the banners and signs till you arrive at an intersection and make a right turn. You should be in an alley that is only for one direction. Go all the way down passing all the moving vehicles till you reach a pink building on your left. Go forward a few more steps and you should notice a solid black door. In front of the door is a silver vehicle with a bicycle next to it. The touchdown is sitting on top of the bicycle basket Turn and go with the traffic. Some scaffolding to the right with a blue awning behind them. Turn right at the next intersection. A brick building with yellow at the bottom is on the left. Turn right at the next intersection. Black awning with wood doors to the left. On the right is a tan brick building with black Go straight thru the next intersection. Red stores on the left and a store with glass window and door with a blue stripe at the top on the right. Stop when you get in front of the next store with a black awning. Touchdown is sitting on the light above the white door to the left of the awning. Begin moving with the flow of traffic, so the scaffolding is on your right. Turn left at the first intersection you get to just up ahead. 

After you turn, a business with a red sign will be on your left and a fenced in area full of construction supplies will be on your right. Take this street all the way to where the next intersection is starting to come into view. When you get to where there are light colored buildings with black trim and bars on the windows on both sides of the street (across from one another), slow down. 

Turn your attention to the building on your left. There is a window air conditioner in the last window. Touchdown is sitting on top of that air conditioner.  Go with traffic. Go straight at the left turn only. Turn right at the next intersection.  Turn right again at the next intersection.  Pass the road work and stop in the next intersection. Look to the right for a green and red fire hydrant. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant.  Go with the direction of the parked cars, and straight through the first intersection you reach, and all the way to the second, passing a heavily treed, fenced in park that runs the length of the block on your right.

When you reach the intersection, don't pass the crosswalk, but instead rotate to your left, to look straight at a black framed door and a window with three segments to the left of it on a red brick building.  To the left of the window is a very colorful rainbow banner with a portrait of a middle-aged human male wearing sunglasses.  

Touchdown is impaled on his nose, dead center between his eyes. Begin moving with the flow of traffic and when you get to the first intersection, turn left. After you turn, you'll have a short black fence in front of a dark brown brick building on your right. 

At the next intersection, turn left again. There will be green scaffolding on your right after you turn. Go past where it ends. Then, there's a glass door to a business and a couple cars parked on the sidewalk. Just after that is a random piece of orange construction barrier right next to the second car on the sidewalk. Touchdown is sitting on top of it right in the middle.  Turn to face the red and tan building up on the left and large tan building on the right. You will turn left at the intersection in front of you. Before you turn there is a green mailbox next to a red paperbox next to an orange one next to a yellow one up on your right. When you turn the median is on your left and a long gray awning that juts out to the end of the sidewalk on your right. 

Go to the next corner and turn left, then turn left at the intersection completing a U-turn. You will go past barriers just up on your right. Once past them there is a gray square post with a blue strip around the top on the right side. Stop in front of the sign on a green post on your right that is rectangle with red lettering. Touchdown is on top of this sign, not obstructing any of the lettering but perched on top. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic with a row of blue bikes on your left.  Go forward and turn left at the next intersection.  You should now see a long row of flags ahead on the left.
Go to the next intersection, right before the flags and turn left.
Up ahead you should see a covered walkway between two buildings.
Move forward, stopping at the purple awning on your right. Just past that is a blue circular sign on a pole that Touchdown is hiding on. With the brown building on your left and the fenced parking lot on your right, move forward and make a right at the intersection, where you see the park in front of you. With the park now on your left, take a right when you get to the corner of the brown building. Continue forward passing the fire hydrant on your right and stopping before reaching the small playground that is behind a fenced area on your right. There should be a silver lamppost in front of that small playground where the street and sidewalk meet. There is a white and red sign on that lamppost. Touchdown is in the center of that sign. Orient yourself to follow the flow of traffic. Go through two intersections and turn right at the third. Go forward and you will see an eagle statue on your left. The touchdown is the ball the eagle is perched on.  Face away from the intersection. Go past the ladder and cones and travel straight to the next intersection. Take a right until you are right next to the crosswalk. Touchdown is on the central orange newsstand to the right. Turn so the bright red wall is on your right, and go forward to the intersection.  Make a right at the intersection.  Go one block and make another right.  Then go one block and make yet another right.  There's a big sign over the street on this block.  Go forward until you are almost in the next intersection - stop just before you're in the crosswalk area. On your left there is a green box attached to the light post.  The bear is on top of that box. Turn so you are going with traffic flow. Go through the next 2 intersections, and at the third one turn right. There will be a median with a tree and dirt to your left once you turn and trees to the right. Move forward to the next intersection. As you are still facing the same way, there is a cement median to the front left. There is a pole with a street light attached and a white sign with a white up arrow. Touchdown is at the base of the pole. Turn so that the construction is on your right and the traffic cones are on your left. Walk forward to the intersection. Turn left. Shortly after, at the next intersection, turn left again. There should be some construction on your left, surrounded with wooden boards. Go forward. Pass an orange awning on your left. Continue going forward, until you see an underground parking garage on your right, and a door on your left with two flower pots on either side of it. Take one step back from this location. On the building to your left, you will see some kind of blue rectangular box on the window above one of the doors. Touchdown is in the center of it.  Go back into that intersection you are by.  Turn left.  Walk to the next intersection.  Turn left.  Walk to the next intersection.  Turn left.  Walk to the next intersection.  Turn left down little road.  There are two concrete planters on your left.  Walk in front of them.  When you are past the 1st one, look back towards the purple bike that is chained up.  The bear is on the seat. You are on a one way road, go with the flow of traffic towards the intersection that you are nearby. At the intersection make a left. Go straight through the next intersection and you will have green scaffolding on your right, continue straight. Again go straight through the next intersection, you will now have a storefront to your right that is accented with neon green. Go to the next intersection and stop in the middle of it. You will green scaffolding ahead to the right and on ahead to the left will be a corner with two bright orange and one yellow newspaper boxes. Turn towards these and you will also see a trashcan right next to them. Touchdown is in the center of the opening of the trash can.  With the barriers to the right, go straight. Take a right at the first intersection. Go straight pas the flags and take another right. Go past the scaffolding to the right. There is some scaffolding to the left and illuminated white and yellow coloring to the left. There is also a mailbox to the left. Touchdown is sitting on the mailbox. Turn and go in the same direction as the traffic.  There will be blue scaffolding on the left. Go straight thru the intersection. And straight at the next intersection. Gray building with windows on the left. Look for an orange and white cone past this buiding on the left. Touchdown is on top.  Turn and face the intersection that you are very close to. Enter the intersection and make a left turn. There will be a very red store front on the left side. Go straight to the next intersection and make another left turn. You will go straight down this longer block. When you get close to the intersection there are blue rental bikes on the left. Go into the intersection and make another left turn. Go straight one block. Make a left turn. Go a short distance down this block. You will pass a red awning on the left side. You will go past the yellow trim with a blue bottom on the left side then stop. Face left and you should see a large doorway that is white and the door has tiny windows. Touchdown is on the top step in the middle.  Move with the flow of traffic, passing the pile of trash bags on your right. At the dead end, take a left turn. Now move straight to the next intersection, just past a row of bike racks on your right, and take another left. 

Now you should be moving against traffic on the left side of the road. Move past blue benches to your left. Continue straight through an opportunity to veer off; at the second opportunity, take the right turn. Now you'll be in the right lane of the same street. Stop there and ahead of you on the right is a green trashcan or newspaper stand. Touchdown is on that green rectangular structure.
 Follow the flow of traffic and go forward. Turn left at the first intersection and then go forward. Turn left at the next intersection and go forward. You will see a parking lot with a green booth on your left. Keep going forward and then turn left at the next intersection. Continue forward and then stop right before the next intersection. There will be a pig statue to your right. The touchdown is on the pig's face. Look for the long row of orange road cones and go in this direction. Turn right at the first intersection. Look right and go almost to the end of this street. Stop slightly before the fire hydrant between two poles, which is a cross an open garage door. Touchdown is sitting on top of the first pole nearest to you. Orient yourself to follow the flow of traffic so that the food stand is on your left. Go forward and turn left at the first intersection. Go forward and then turn left at the next intersection. There should be food stands on both sides of you. The touchdown is on the subway station on the right on the white handicapped sign.  Turn to face with traffic, then walk to the end of the block. Turn left, and then there should be a red pub on your right. Now go to the end of this block, and take another left. You should see a tall glass building in the distance. Now go forward until  you're standing just about between two red and black signs on a building to you left. Touchdown is on top of the nearest trash can. With traffic, go to the light and right.  Go right again at the next light.

To your right will be a shop with a green sign band and yellow letters. To your left, scaffolding. Ahead, a large yellow sign on a building.

Stop before you go past the window on the right with pineapples.  Rotate right. You should be facing a double window which you can see within the store. To the right of that window, on the dark grey foundation of the pillar, is what looks to be a spigot in a square inset.

Touchdown is adhered to the spigot. turn so you are facing against traffic, go down the street, you will see a 2 toned striped brick building on your right, continue down this street. When you come to the intersection take a right, there will be a building with arched windows on your right, and on the sidewalk to your left will me multiple multicolored bins. Just before the next intersection on your right there is a tree with two shrubs planted next to it with a black fence around them, touchdown is the the shrub on the right Go with traffic down the one way. Go straight at the first intersection. Stop just before the crosswalk of the next intersection and look right. There is a fire hydrant between two poles. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant. Turn so that the red awning is on your right. Walk into the intersection right in front of you. Turn left there. When you get to the next intersection shortly afterwards, turn left again. Go forward, passing some flags on your right. Keep going to the next intersection, and turn left there again. Go forth a little bit, until you are by the external stairs of the brick building on your left. There is a trash can in front of the building. Touchdown is sitting on top of it.  Turn in the direction and go left at the intersection you're instantly at, passing garishly huge sign bands on both sides of the street.  Go straight through the light and walk to the next intersection, where you'll go just a little right and stop before crossing the pedestrian crosswalk.  To your left should be a park, and to the right, a building with clocks on its sign band.  Just past the furthest clock, you'll see a blue cloud shaped emblem, in the center of which Touchdown hides.
 Approach the intersection and turn towards the large white vehicle next to the shop with the orange awning.Continue down that street until there is an intersection and then turn left. Go straight through the first intersection and continue straight. There will be a white truck parked on the left side of the street. The touchdown is on the white and red sign next to the truck. Move in the direction of traffic and go straight through the intersection. Keep going, then stop when you are directly in the center of the next intersection. There will be a green bicycle sign on your left. Touchdown is on the bicycle. Going with the flow of traffic, go straight through the stop sign.  You'll follow the curve of the road. and turn right on to the side street at the intersection.  When you get towards the end of the block, you'll need to veer to the left so that you're attempting to go on to the main road.  But stop at the red triangle sign (yield sign).  Touchdown is on the yellow diamond on the green pole that the yield sign is on. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, with the blue scaffolding on your right.

Go through the first two intersections, and make a left at the third, there should be some dirty white bins under some scaffolding on your right, as soon as you make the turn.

Halfway down this street, you'll see loading docks for trucks with yellow posts in between them on your right. There should be a bin under a sign, and in front of a white car, to the right of these loading docks. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the bin. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and step into the immediate intersection.
Turn left.
You should see scaffolding ahead on the left.
Turn left at the next intersection.  You'll see a yellow riffled door on your left with a painting of a guy on it.  Go forward.
Eventually you'll see graffiti on the left in pink and blue.  Turn left at this intersection.
Go forward and you'll see a storefront that is purple and pink.  In front of this is a yellow newspaper box.  Touchdown is on this yellow box.
 Orient yourself so that there is a locksmith and barber shop across the street and go forward, turning right onto that street. There should be three flags on your left. Continue forward and turn right at the next intersection. Turn right at the next intersection and go straight. There should be a yellow sign with a red octagon on your left. The touchdown is on the red part of the sign.  Head in the direction of the ambulance and cement mixer, and head up to the intersection to make a left. When you make the turn you should see blue bikes on your left. You should head all  the way down this road and take a final left. After you make the left check on your left for a yellow newspaper box across the street. Touchdown is on top of the yellow box. If you're on the correct position to your left is a building with a blue-and-white striped awning. On your right is a building that has a gray bottom and a white brick top.
You will be heading straight and on your right side you will be passing orange and white construction barriers. Cross through the first intersection.
Continue straight until you reach the next intersection, now make a right turn. If you look to the right there should be a tall fence, to the left is a red building with gray trim.
Now head straight. When you reach the next intersection turn right. To your left should be a white building with a red brick top and arched windows with green bars over them. Please continue straight. When you reach the next intersection please turn right. To your left is a red brick building. To your right is a brick building with street art painted on it. If you turn and look to the corner you will see a trashcan this is in the same corner is the building of the street art touchdown is sitting directly on top of that trashcan. Start by facing in the same direction as the parked cars.  The first intersection you reach has stop signs; pass through it.  Turn right at the second intersection.  There will be a restaurant with outdoor seating on the corner.  The next intersection you reach is a bit tricky.  Turn right and head down the wide road with a tall building in the distance, not the more narrow road that also angles off to the right.  Look for construction on your right with orange barriers in the street.  Stop as soon as you reach this construction.  Now look left -- there is a restaurant with blue awnings and outside seating.  Touchdown is on the table on the far right. Going with the flow of traffic, proceed to the intersection and take a left.  You will be on this street for a bit. You will go straight through three intersections.  At the fourth intersection, on the right side there is a phone booth.  Touchdown is on top of the trashcan next to the phone booth. Face the fence on make a quick left, go straight until you reach the second street light. make a left and stop before you reach the light. There will be a glass building on your left with 4 potted plants out front. Touchdown is in between the first two potted plants on your left. Turn so the blue mailboxes are to your right and the orange sign is to your left. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. The dark gray stores with the horizontal red signs should be on your left. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. A black sign with a red star should be on your left. Walk forward down the street and stop once you pass the crosswalk. Turn right. You should see  a fire hydrant right in front of you. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant. Face the intersection closest to you, there is a small parking lot to your left.
Move straight through this first intersection.
At he second intersection turn left
There is now a grassy area on your right and stores on the left.
Travel straight ahead to the next traffic light and turn left
There is now a blue awning with pale yellow stripes to your right.
Shortly ahead is a small intersection, there is a yellow mesh plastic fence to your right.
Go straight ahead through this intersection.
There is now a small parking area to your left and blue awning to the right.
Travel towards the traffic light ahead and stop just before the crosswalk.
Look right and see the painting of a man wearing a hat of the greatest baseball team that has ever been.
Touchdown is on the mans nose You're going to want to go with the flow of the traffic. There will be blue bikes to your right and a yellow car in front of you. Go to the intersection and take a left. You should see a red white and blue truck ahead of you with scaffolding on the left. Go down this road and skip right through that first intersection and make it to the next one. Take a left now, and you should see cones on your left and right. and then they disappear as you go forward and now you will see two trucks in front of you. Go to the intersection and just slightly past it, you will see a black garbage can with a white bag. Your touchdown will be the top middle of that. Inside the can. Turn until you are facing the intersection closest to you. There should be short metal posts to your right. Walk into the intersection and turn right. You should be going with the traffic. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. There should be a big blue light sign with a baseball player on it to your left. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. There should be a glass building with triangle windows in the distance in front of you. Walk forward to the next intersection and stand in the middle of it. In front of you to the right you should see an orange bike next to a skinny sign post. Touchdown is at the base of the post. Turn around and align yourself so the large red awning is on your right. Head up to the intersection and make a right. This will take you through a parking lot where you should ignore the first and second left turn.

Turn right at the next intersection and you should see a row of cars on your left with scaffolding behind them. When you hit the white sign on the scaffolding, Touchdown will be in the middle of the sign. Turn so you are going with traffic. There will be a yellow storefront on your left. Go straight until you get to the light. Take a right. There will be graffiti on your right on the building. Go straight through the next two intersections ahead. At the next light take a right. There will be an awning on your right with a bicycle on it. Go down the street and stop just past the first tree on the right. Touchdown is sitting on the metallic looking bike on the right side of the street. Turn and walk in the direction of traffic, seeing a double green sign in front of you to the right, ahead of dumpsters. Walk to the next intersection, moving to the left of an arrow sign before it, and go straight through.  Up ahead see a red sign with a yellow circle on it. At that intersection, go right. You might have to maneuver a bit, but keep at it. Just before entering the next intersection, stop before the corner building on your right with big yellow letters on a green back drop in each window. Turn to face those signs ahead, and see a withe sign with red lettering on a green post before them. The sign has an arrow on it. Touchdown is sitting right in the middle of that arrow.  Turn so the red awning on the black building is on your left and blue dumpster up ahead on your right that's in front of a wall with faces on it. Go all the way down this road to the next corner. To to the middle of the intersection and take a small left. To your right is a yellow paper box. Touchdown is on top of that. 

 Turn yourself so you are facing with traffic a concrete awning leading into a building will be on your right and start down the street.    Continue straight past sidewalk vendors.  Go straight through intersection.  You will see two yellow barrier poles on your right and a large red white and green awning on your left.  Turn left at next intersection.  You will see a bike parking station on your left as you move down the street.  As you approach the intersection your will see two poles on the other side of the intersection in the median.  Touchdown is sitting on the sidewalk between the two poles. Orient yourself so you are moving with traffic. Move ahead straight through that first 3-way intersection. Now you should see a few orange cylinders ahead to your right. Continue forward to the next 3-way intersections, where the orange cylinders begin, and turn right. Now you should have a line of orange cylinders going forward on your right. At the next intersection, turn left and then veer right to stay on the right side of the median.
Now move forward past the row of green awnings. At the next intersection, turn right, and then from that current position veer left a bit. You want to end up next to the row of bike racks on your left. Stop after the first few bikes. On your left is a standing white store sign with a black sign with yellow letters. Touchdown is on top of that sign. Orient yourself so you are with the flow of traffic and looking down a street that has a line of blue rental bicycles on your left.  Walk down to the end of the block, where the road ends in front of a park, and turn right.  Walk forward to the next intersection keeping the park on your left.  At this intersection, where the road turns into cobblestones, turn right.  Begin walking down the road.  On your right as you walk down the road, you'll see a store that has yellow and brown awnings.  Past this on the right is the entrance to a parking garage, keep going straight, now looking on your left.  There is a permanent red thin overhang coming out of a red and black brick building on your left.  On the sidewalk in front of that building, near the road, is a red post with two yellow shorter poles on either side of it.  Touchdown is on top of the red post. Look for the green scaffolding on the right and go in this direction.
Turn right at the intersection.  The green scaffolding will still be on the right.
Turn right again at the next intersection.
Turn right one last time at the next intersection. 
Stop when you pass the dumpster full of trash on your right. Lending on the dumpster is a black and red motorcycle. Touchdown is on the front light of the motorcycle. 
 Align yourself with the flow of traffic on this small street. Make a right at the first intersection. You'll then go straight through one intersection, and then turn right at the next.

Head to the next intersection, and make only a right. You should be in front of a theater like marquee in front of you. Below that is a green trash bin. Touchdown is on top of the bin. Find the gray truck and go against its flow of traffic. There should be shops with black awnings to your left. Go straight through the first two intersections and then turn right at the third, You will see some construction to your left. There will be a store with an american flag. The touchdown is at the base of the flagpole. Go with the flow of traffic to the first intersection and take a right turn. Go to the next intersection and Touchdown will be on top of the trashcan next to the light post in front of the scaffolding. On your left is a building made of red brick that has a sign that shows lots of different foods. They also have a neon sign in their window which is blue green yellow and red. On your right you'll see a red fence with a children's playground inside of it. You want to head straight.
Once you reach the first intersection make a left turn. On your right you will be passing a yellow building with red writing. On the left is a building with a green awning and yellow cheese 90s creek characters and white and Chinese characters and letters. Head straight to the intersection then make a left.
Now continue straight until the road deadens into a green wall and you must take the left turn. On your right you'll see a brick building with a black fence. Straight ahead on your right you'll see our red octagon shaped sign with white letters touchdown is sitting directly in front of the sign. Turn to see white arrows in the street just ahead of you. Walk straight ahead over them. Go straight through the next intersection. You will see orange and white construction barriers along the street on your right. Go right at the 3 way intersection ahead. Now there will be orange and white construction barriers along the right hand side of your path. Go right at the next intersection. Pass by the parking lot on your left and go straight through the next intersection. Once through the intersection, stop and turn to face the building on your left. It will have Blue X's in all of the windows. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the blue X farthest to your left. Turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street, and you are facing the intersection.  Take a couple of steps forward into the intersection, and you should be able to turn right.  Walk down the narrow one-land road with parked cars on both sides.  There is a red brick building on the right with a dark grey arch above its doorway.  On the left is some scaffolding with a black, white, and orange sign.  

Walk to the end of this street, walk between two red hexagon signs with white lettering, and turn to your right at the T-intersection.  There should be some trees in pots and some scaffolding on your right, and a storefront with a red neon sign on your left.  Walk forward, down a green bike lane, toward the next intersection.  

In the intersection, turn right, so that the white shop with black lettering is on your right.  Move forward down this main road, and when you are given a choice, keep moving straight forward, so that the orange construction barrels stay on your left.  

Keep going, and then stop in the middle of the large intersection.  Look to your right, and you should see a white sign with a black shield-shaped logo and a black arrow.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this sign, right above the point of that arrow.  Turn so you go with traffic flow to the next corner and turn right. Move forward to the next intersection and turn right. Move with traffic flow down this narrow street and pass construction scaffolding on the right. Keep going past black fencing on the right with bicycles parked in front of that. A bit further up, past the green canopy on the right is a red canopy on the right. Touchdown is on top of the numbers so you can still see the numbers on the red canopy. Align yourself so that the roads of traffic are on your left. Head up to the first intersection to make a right. You'll pass a left turn and a couple steps up before the intersection, there should be a bike tied to a post on a white sign. Touchdown is on the seat of the bike. Position yourself so the orange and white construction fence is on your right. Go straight through the first traffic light. Just before you get to the second traffic light, you'll see a green trash bin on your left just before the crosswalk. Touchdown is sitting on top of that trash bin waiting for you.  Enter the intersection you are standing at, and go right. As you approach the next intersection, you will see bike rentals to your left. Stop before getting to the corner store on your right, with the green and yellow window signs. Turning to look at it, see a white sign with red letters. Touchdown is sitting on top of that sign,in the middle.  Orient yourself so the tunnel is on your right and the corner store on your left. Follow the flow of traffic and turn left at the second intersection. On your right there will be a red motorcycle parked. Continue until you reach a silver motorcycle. The touchdown is the center of the silver bike's front wheel.  Orient yourself so you are facing a brick restaurant that has red awnings and outdoor seating surrounded by a black fence with red panels.  Walk forward toward that restaurant until you can turn right and have the restaurant be on your left.  Travel down this road until the next intersection.  Things are going to get a little weird.  Right before you enter the intersection, you're going to move to your right.  You'll teleport a bit, but move to your right again.  Turn to face the intersection, and you'll have the option to go straight or go to your right.  Go to your right, and you'll teleport in front of a building that has blue signs and gold trim on the windows.  Turn right, the building you were facing is on your left and there is a row of blue rental bicycle on your left as well.  Walk down to the next intersection.  Turn right, and walk toward the next intersection.  As you walk down to the intersection, you'll see four blue round pots that have a single tree growing out of it.  When you're even with the last tree, stop and turn right so you're facing the tree.  The bear is sitting at the base of the tree. Orient yourself so you are facing the intersection directly in front of you proceed forward and to the intersection and take a left. Continue down this road until you reach the next intersection and take a left. You should see a building with several arched windows to your left. Continue forward until you reach the next intersection and go straight. You should see two American flags ahead to your left in Sydney forward and tell you passed the second American flag. Look to your left and you should see a light pole just behind a metal barrier, Click the base of the light pole to find touchdown. Turn and go in the direction with the traffic. You will be at a intersection. Turn right. Beige and black building on the left and beige and red on the right. Turn right again the first chance you get. You will be on a cobblestone road.  Turn right at the  red and white octagon signs. White building on the left. Turn right at next intersection. Green building on the right with some garage doors. At the end of the green building you will see  2 small trees and pumpkins. Touchdown is sitting between the 2 trees on the ground.  With the stone median with round fan shapes to your right, go into the light and right. You'll be walking against traffic, with scaffolding to the left and a long red awning to your right on the other side of the median, now on your right.

Go through 2 lights and left when reality changes suddenly.

There'll be scaffolding to your left and then a couple black entry canvases and then a red one on your left. Go to the light and go right. A building with a red awning is on your right. Go to the second building with the red awning and the orange door, and face that door. To its left is a black door, with an air conditioner above it with a red line on the top. Touchdown is on its grill. Orient yourself so you are looking at the water in the distance.  Enter the intersection and turn right.  Walk down through two three way intersections.  Look ahead on your right for a building that is under construction and is currently just metal beams.  Just past that building is an intersection.  Enter into it and stop.  Look ahead on your right, you'll see a green street sign up in the air.  There is a white arrow pointing right on it.  Touchdown is on the tip of the arrow. Head straight with the cloth stores to your right.  Take a right at the intersection with a short building. Go straight and take another right at a building that is very tall and gray. Go straight past the scaffolding. Continue until you see a store with a red star in the window to the left. Touchdown is in front of that red star. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, and head to the intersection. Make a left, then another left shortly after. 

head down this road and stop before a blue sign on a red brick building on your left. You should stop in front of a loading bay with a yellow truck in it, and two yellow poles in front of the bay. Touchdown is on top of the left pole. Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic, and head to the nearest intersection.  Turn right.  Walk through 2 intersections, turn right at the 3rd.  Walk a little ways down until you are in front of a red door on your right.  There is a little curved pipe on the ground to the right of it.  The bear is on it.   Turn so you are heading with the flow of traffic.  Take the first right.  Then take the next right.  Look down this road, there is a large tree on the left.  Head towards it. Pass it and head into the construction area.   Stop before you get to the blue trailer, but look at it.  There is a yellow pole on the side.  The bear is on the top. Turn to face the bottom of the Y intersection, toward the nearest crosswalk, then go as straight as you can towards the next intersection. There should be traffic warning things on your right--go that way. One you hit a weird T, and you're right before a basketballl court, go right, and follow this road. Go past the playground with people in it on your right, there will be a gate, a walkway, and a basketball court to the left of it. Touchdown is in between the horizontal bars on the little metal structure behind the nearest basket. GO with the flow of traffic.  There will be grocery on your right with a green stripe above its windows.  Go to the next intersection and turn right.  That same green-stripe will still be on your right.  Head down this street, watching for a spot where there is scaffolding on both sides of you.  Stop before the end of the scaffolding on your left.  In front of you, just to the left, is a hanging basket will a yellow/green plant of some kind growing in it.  This basket is hanging off a light pole, about one story up off the ground.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this plant.   Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street and the construction barrier is at your left.  Go forward until you reach an intersection, and turn right.  You'll have buildings with interesting and varied fire escapes on your right now.  Go forward one short block to the next intersection, and turn right again.  Now on your right you'll see a solid red brick building, and a church a couple of storefronts down from that.  Go past the church, and then on your left you'll pass an odd little opening in the median strip (don't turn there, even though you'll have the option to make a slight left).  You'll be heading into construction.  Keep an eye on the median/island that is made of bricks/stones on your left.  As you move through the construction, you'll see this island come down to a point where it ends.  Before the point, there are four metal grates in the island.  Stop right before you're even with the first of those grates.  The bear is in the middle of the first grate (closest to you). position yourself so the trash cans are at your right and you are following the traffic. you will see a yellow cab in front of you . Going that direction , pass the first intersection. Then you will reach a 3-way intersection with two traffic cones on the right side of the road. Turn right here. When you almost reach the intersection you will see red awning to your right and a white delivery truck with purple/orange letters on the back. Next to the delivery truck on the right side on the walk way there is a red fire hydrant. The touchdown is on the top of it.  Hello there!

1. Make sure that you're going with the flow of traffic. A wall with a lot of graffiti should be to your left. Take a right at the intersection directly in front of you.

2. When you reorient yourself, there should be a fenced-in area on your left. Take another right at the next intersection.

3. There should be a median with small fences and trees to your left once you reorient yourself. Ignore the next intersection, but keep an eye out--your destination is close.

4. When you're next to a gold SUV parked outside of a building with a pair of steps leading up to a pair of doors, stop. To the right of the right door is a black sign with a white circular logo hanging from a pole. Touchdown is in the center of the X that divides the logo into quadrants.

Good luck! :) Orient yourself so the intersection that is closest to you is directly in front of you and there's an orange fenced construction area to your right.  Begin walking straight, going through the intersection (you won't have a choice anyway).  At the first intersection you can turn at, turn left.  Begin walking straight.  Continue straight through the first intersection you come to.  There are jersey barriers on your left dividing the traffic from the construction site.  Up ahead, there is a break in the barriers to allow trucks and other construction equipment access to the site.  When you're in the middle of that break in the barriers, stop and rotate left so you are looking at the construction site.  On the metal chain link fence that can be closed at night, there is a large blue square sign that has shiny reflective markings on it.  It should be on the right of the fence opening.  Touchdown is in the middle of that blue square. Position yourself so you're traveling with traffic down a one-way street. Scaffolding with a red sign will be on your left and an entrance to a parking garage is up ahead on your right. 

Turn right at the first intersection. Now, there are four flags on a building on your right. At the next traffic light, turn right again. After you turn, there will be two American flags on your left. 

Go straight through the first intersection you get to on this street. Soon, there is scaffolding on your right. Walk to the end of the scaffolding and look for the narrow red canopy extending over a door on your left. It's right next to a very open space and there are small planters at both poles and in front of the windows. There is a light gray logo on the front of the canopy. Touchdown is waiting for you in the middle of that logo.  Position yourself so the playground is behind you on your right and the scaffolding is on your left. Move forward through the first intersection and past the blue rental bikes on the right. 

When you get to the next intersection, turn right. Go straight through the first two traffic lights. Before you get to the next intersection, there's a bus stop on your left. Touchdown is sitting right in the middle of the bench in the bus stop.  Turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  The red doors should be on your right.  

Move forward and stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to.  Turn to your left and move straight down this street, following the red bike path on the right, and still in the same direction as the cars on your street.  Be careful not to move sideways down the same road that you just came from.  

Move forward, and sidestep to your left when there is a fork on the right side of the road, then move straight forward into the intersection.  

In the middle of the intersection turn to your left and walk down the narrow road between a shop with a red sign and blue letters on the left, and a shop with an orange and brown awning on the right.  

Walk straight down this road until you see basketball courts on your left.  On the right hand side of the street there is a brick building with a beige canopy reaching out over the sidewalk.  Move closer until you are right next to the canopy.  Touchdown the Bear is on top of the front of this awning, at the highest point of the triangle, right above some numbers.
 Go with traffic.
Pass one intersection.
Turn right at the next intersection. Traffic will be coming at you now.
Keep straight 
Turn right at the next intersection and STOP.
You will be behind a white van with a green go on it.
look right, you will see a woman riding a blue Citi bike.
Touchdown is on top of her white helmet.
 From the starting position, turn so you are facing the same direction as the flow of traffic. You'll see an intersection very close to you. Go straight through that intersection. You'll see another traffic light in front of you. At the light, take a right. It's a narrow one-way street with scaffolding to your left. Continue down this street until you get to a traffic light. At the light take a right -- the sharper of the two possible right turns. You'll see a cafe with umbrellas on your right. Move forward until you get to a crosswalk before a traffic light. There will be scaffolding on your right. On the right, on the corner of the street is a don't walk sign. Touchdown is sitting on the hand in that signal.. Turn and travel the same direction the cars are going. Go straight through the first intersection. Turn right at the next intersection. Go passed the playground on the right. Just before the next intersection there is a brown building on your left with a large yardspace with trees. On the sidewalk in front of the fence there is a fire hydrant. Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant.  Put the waiting traffic on your right and proceed forward. Turn right at the first intersection you reach. Touchdown is inside an open trailer ahead, just past some fencing with black top-plates. Orient yourself so that you are moving with the flow of traffic. Go straight through the first intersection you come to. At the second, turn left.  Continue until you reach the next intersection, and turn left again. Then on your right you'll see a restaurant/store with a ribbon of small colored triangle flags. Touchdown is on the closest pink flag. Go in the same direction as traffic.  Move forward to the first intersection.  Turn right.  There will a store painted blue on your right.  Go down this street.  Go straight through one stoplight.  At the second stoplight, turn right again.  This time there will be some scaffolding on your right.  Go down this street to the next intersection.  Turn right one more time.  Go just past the pile of garbage and boxes on the right and stop.  To your left is a brownish-red door with the black stoop.  Touchdown is sitting on the bottom right corner of this door.  You're pretty much in an intersection where you're starting.  You're going to go down the smaller street with fewer lanes, not the wider/larger street.  Turn yourself so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on the smaller street (red awnings on the restaurant to your right).  Go straight until you come to an intersection, and turn right. A very short distance down the block there is a glass-walled bus stop shelter.  Stop just before you're even with the bus shelter (it will be a tad ahead of you on your right).  The bear is in the center part of the bench inside the bus shelter. Face the same direction as traffic and move straight. There is white pipe type of structure to the bridge on both your left and right.. Go until you are at the end of that. Then you'll see stone columns to the right. Move forward a little more. On the left side you will see a small blue bridge that connects to the other side of the larger bridge. Touchdown is on the concrete barrier right at the base of the pole that is at that bridge. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
The building to your left should be mostly glass and black and blue awnings to your right.
Head down through some scaffolding to the next intersection and turn left.
Scaffolding should continue to be on your right.  Turn left at the next intersection.
Here you should see scaffolding on both sides of you along with black netting around a fence to the left.  Head into the crosswalk of the next intersection and 
you will find Touchdown hiding on top of the bright orange newspaper box to your right. Turn s the green construction is on your right.  Follow the flow of traffic to the first intersection and stop when you get there.  Look to thr right corner and there is an orange newspaper machine next to the street light post to the left of a garbage can.  Touchdown is on top of that orange newspaper stand. Orient yourself so the tall building with a colorful graphic on the side is on your right.  Walk down this road, going straight through the first intersection.  At the second intersection turn right.  Begin walking down this road.  This is a very long block and you're going most of the length of it.  Be on the lookout for the start of a green plywood awning on scaffolding on your left.  Just before the scaffolding starts is a black semicircular awning with white markings on it.  When you're even with that awning stop waking.  Ahead on your right is a flag suspended between scaffolding that has an orange column, white column, and green column.  Touchdown is in the middle of the flag.   Look for the colorful cafe. Keep the colorful cafe to your left and go down the one way street. You will also pass a white building with a large red garage door on the left.
Turn right at the intersection.
Turn right at the next intersection and stop next to the last orange and white barrel in the middle of the street with cation tape on it. Touchdown is sitting on top of the last barrel where the light is. Turn and go in the same direction as traffic, noticing the lit up trees to your right. At the first intersection, go left. You will pass a building on your right with greek figures on it, such as a horse with wings. Go left at the next intersection. There will be an orange and white construction barrier along the left side of the street you are travelling on. Continue straight. Keep going passed the red signs on both sides of the street ahead, passed a row of lit trees on your right. Coming upon the next intersection, notice the red heart on the sign on the far left corner of the intersection and hot dog stand on the corner to your right. Just before entering the intersection, turn to face the hot dog stand. Touchdown is sitting on the highest point of the red and yellow food awning that is left of the other two.  Go in the direction that will place the blue store front with the white door to your right. Turn left at the first intersection. Go straight through the next intersection. Turn left at the next intersection. You will see windows with red signs and white lettering on the signs to your right. Stop at the red stop sign on the right of you, at the next intersection. Turn to the right and you will see a red brick building with a white door. To the right of the white door are two round planters with plants and to the left is a long rectangle planter with plants. You will see an old fire hydrant at the curb. Touchdown is at top of this fire hydrant. Orient yourself so that you see orange and white striped construction barriers on your right and a green trash can next to a traffic light on your left.  Go down the street in this direction.  You should see a business with a red awning on your left as you approach the next stoplight. Go straight through this stoplight.  You will quickly come to another stoplight.  Go straight through it as well.  Shortly after you pass through the light, you should see a bright yellow sign with five sides on your right.  Just past this sign, on the sidewalk on your right, you should see a tree with a small fence around it.  Touchdown is sitting about halfway up the tree starting where you can clearly see tree bark. Turn and follow the flow of traffic.  Stop before you enter the first intersection.  On the left there is a bike missing its front wheel.  The bear is where the wheel should be. Follow the flow of traffic till you come to a stop sign and turn to your right.Go under the bridge and turn right at the first street.As you reach the red awning on your left you will fin Touchdown in the center of the front of that red awning. Going with the flow of traffic, go to this first intersection and take a right turn. You'll have subway entrances on both sides of you. Go straight through the first intersection.  At the next intersection, take a right turn. Go to the next intersection and take a right turn.  Touchdown will be on your right on top of a fire hydrant with a white cap. Turn with the flow of traffic and turn right at the next intersection. 

Go straight again and turn right again at the very next intersection.

You should now see a white van with traffic cones around it on your left. Go straight past this and you'll see a black and red motorcycle parked on the right a little further down the street. Go past this too and you'll see an american flag hanging from a building on your right. The touchdown is on the stars of the flag. turn until you are facing traffic head on, there is a huge perfectly shaped pine tree ahead, move toward the intersection. turn right at the intersection, there are pink and white flags on light posts, move forward. you will see graffiti on the wall of one of the buildings, keep moving forward. There is a store front with large cardboard boxes and sinks out front, one of the sinks is green, the bear is in the middle of the sink Face the same direction as the flow of traffic with the closest intersection behind you.
Travel all the way to the end of this long block passing residential buildings on both sides.
At the traffic light turn left.
There is a striped awning to your left now.
Turn left at the intersection ahead and turn left down this one way street.
Closer roll gate to the right, goofy mural on your left.
Go straight ahead slowly, paying attention to your right hand side and see the red building with the bright red door with a black iron gate in front of it. Above the red door is a white lamp.
Touchdown is sitting atop the white lamp.


 Turn so you'll be going with the flow of traffic.  Go straight through one intersection.  At the next intersection, turn left (this ins't a 4-way - you can only turn left). You'll go pretty far down this block.  When you're a few storefronts from the next intersection, start looking at the vehicles parked on your right.  When you're near the intersection there is a truck with a colorful graffiti-style mural all over it.  Stop when your very close to the rear corner of that truck.  The bear is in the center of the rear tire that's right near you. turn to go with traffic to the 1st intersection. Make a right at the intersection, on your left will be a building with a bright red awning with yellow lettering, yo your right a white brick building, this is a one way and you will be moving with traffic, follow this street to the next intersection and take a right, there will be a store front to your right with an orange sign, followed by a yellow store front, there is a store front with a black sign that has a green cross with a red swan in it, the bear is on the swan Walk in to the intersection next to you and take a left. Walk to the next intersection and take another left. Take a long walk down this road until you come to a four way intersection. In front of you are some umbrellas. Touchdown is on top of the yellow and red one. Align yourself with the flow of traffic with the street you're on. Go forward once, and then the back left arrow. You should be on the street with the blue food truck. Go down this road to the next intersection, and make a left. At the next short intersection, make another left. Take a couple steps in and take a look to the left to see three black circles with food in the middle on the back of the truck. Touchdown is in the middle black circle Turn and go in the same direction as the traffic. Construction on the left and a tan building on the right with a dumpster in front. Turn left at the intersection. Burgundy awning on the left. Turn left at the intersection. Blue Scaffolding on the right and gray scaffolding on the left. Turn left at the intersection and there will be bike parking on the left. There will be some construction up on the right. Turn left at the intersection. On the right corner you will see a yellow umbrella and touchdown is sitting on top.   Going with the flow of traffic, go to the first intersection and turn right. There will be bright colored decor on your left. Go to the next intersection and stop in the middle.  Touchdown will be on your right on top of the blue mailbox ahead. Standing in the intersection, turn to go down the street between the corner store with red awnings on the left and a brick building with brown and yellow signs on the right. Stay straight on this road, and go left at the 4 way intersection. The building along the street to your left has blue signs all along it. To your right,find the store with a red banner with a picture of a slice of pizza and stop just past it. Touchdown is in the middle of that pizza slice.  Align yourself so that the shuttered bays are on your left. Head up to the intersection and make a right. At the corner, on your left after you make the turn, you should see a green trash bin next to a garbage bag. Touchdown is on top of the green bin You are on a one way road, go against the flow of traffic. Make a right at the next intersection, you will now be going with the flow of traffic Go straight through the next intersection, you will now have a row of community bikes on the left. Go forward and you will soon see a large blue and white sign on the building to your right and blue covering on the fence to your left. After the fence is a crosswalk, stop on this crosswalk. Turn to your left and you will see a red and a green sign on a pole and several silver cylinders coming out of the sidewalk. Touchdown is in the center of the red and green sign, in the middle where the colors meet.  Go in the same direction as traffic.  Move forward to the first intersection.  Turn left.  There will be a building with big stone blocks on your left.  Go to the next intersection.  Turn left again.  There will be a building with huge pillars on your left this time.  Move to the next intersection.  Turn left yet again.  This time, on your left will be some construction scaffolding with green on the top of it, and on your right will be a store with a blue stripe at the top of it.  Head to the next intersection. Stand in the intersection.  Ahead of you, slightly to the right, you will see a building with green vertical stripes as part of its signage.  At the top of those stripes are green squares with white letters.  Touchdown is at the top of the rightmost green square, sitting on the top of that square. You're starting out in a three-way intersection. Turn yourself so the store with teh blue and yellow awning that wraps around a corner is on your left side.  You'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street.  Go forward, and straight through the first three-way intersection you come to.  The second intersection is also a three-way - turn right here.  Now you'll have a red stone building with large black panels/windows on your left side.  Go forward, and straight through the first intersection you come to (a stop sign intersection).  The second intersection you come to does not have stop signs or a light - turn right here. Now you'll have a building on your left that has black panels on the wall with grids of little circles all over them.  Go to the other end of this short block.  Stop just before you enter the intersection, when you're even with the corners of the buildings on both sides of you.  Turn to the building on your left.  There's a fire hydrant on that corner.  The bear is on top of the hydrant. Move along in the same direction as traffic.  Turn right at the intersection. Go down one block and turn right again.  Go down one block again, and turn right at the side street with the two traffic cones.  go to the end of the block without going through the intersection.  touch down bear is at the base of the signpost on the left corner closest to you.  NOT across the street. Go to the nearest intersection and turn left. Green scaffolding on the left.
Go straight at the next intersection.
Turn left at the next intersection.
Keep straight at the right turn only.
Keep straight at the next right turn only.
Turn left at the double stop signs.
Look left and stop when the green awing with rainbow flags are next to you. Under the first rainbow flag there is a hole in the awing. Touchdown is sitting on the hole.





 Turn with the flow of cars and head to the nearest intersection.  Turn right.  Continue forward and take the next right.  Follow this street until it ends.  Turn right, take a step forward, and stop.  Look to your right, and behind you.  There is a silver fire hydrant.  The bear is on the small post in front of it.   You should notice two people on your left and a ton of cars heading one direction. Follow the direction the car is heading till you reach an intersection. At the intersection make a right turn and continue the next intersection in which you want to skip and go straight. Once you pass the intersection you should notice a bicycle leaning on a car on your right and a red banner across the street but up above a building hanging. There should be two air conditioner to the right of the banner one above it and one below it. The touch down is on the air conditioner above the banner. If you are in the correct position to your right is a building with blue white and yellow balloons on the sidewalk. These balloons are on either side of the door.
You will head straight through the next two intersections.
Once you reach the third intersection you will turn left. On the right you will see a yellow sign with blueprints that is on a phone booth. If you look to your left directly across the street you will see a clothing store. You will now follow this road straight. You will go almost to the intersection but not quite. To your left you will see a large windows with advertisements these are all art shaped and cannot be seen through. The first window has a girl hopping in the air. Touchdown is directly over her face. Orient yourself so that the building with thick beige columns is on your left. Proceed forward going straight through two intersections. Pass a rack for bike sharing on your left and stop before the bus stop station on the left. Touchdown is on the hat of the map in the advertisement on the bus stop. Turn so you're walking with the flow of traffic. Continue across the nearby intersection and keep going until you arrive at the next one. There will be a shop with a yellow banner on top on the left corner. Turn left there. Continue and go straight across the next intersection. Continue until right before the next intersection. There will be a blue mail box on the sidewalk on the right. Touchdown is on top of the mail box. Stand with the blue and pink store signs on your right and make a right at the first intersection. Continue down the street, passing the yellow store sign on your left and make another right at the first intersection. there should now be an outdoor shopping area on your right. Move forward, passing that shopping area and stop before reaching the traffic light. Above you, on both sides, there will be big billboards. Now, look down on the road in front of you, Touchdown will be on the tip of the white painted arrow. Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. An intersection should be directly behind you, and a store with some red awnings should be to your right.

2. Go forward. At the next corner on the left, you should see some scaffolding that wraps around the building. Take a right at this intersection. When you reorient yourself, the aforementioned scaffolding should be behind you and a black storefront with tan paper covering the windows should be on your right.

3. Go down this road for a while, and take another right at the next intersection that you meet. When you reorient yourself, there should be a store with a blue awning and flags on your left. Your destination is close.

4. Go forward until you've almost reached the next intersection. Make sure that you're standing in front of the crosswalk but haven't passed over it. If you look to the left at the sidewalk corner, you should see a trashcan next to a green lamppost. Touchdown is sitting on the opening of the trashcan.

Good luck! :) Move so that you are standing in the middle of the four way intersection. Turn so that the playground is on your right. Go down that street. Stop just as you reach the crosswalk. You will see a black fire hydrant to your left. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant. Face the intersection right in front of you and go forward, then go right. 

Going with traffic flow, go to the next corner and turn right.

Still going with traffic flow, go down past the brown awning on your left, then past the dark blue awning on your left. Keep going down to the building outlined in black on the left with planters in front of it. There are 2 silver numbers on the black part of the building over the door. Touchdown is on top of those numbers. Go with traffic. Keep straight.  Look left for the 12m on the guard barrier.  Move pass the 12m and look up at light hanging over the road. Touchdown is on the glass part of the light. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the deli on your left and the cafe on your right. Continue forward passing green scaffolding on your right and left until you reach the next intersection and take a left. You should now see orange and white construction barriers on your left and a construction vehicle on the left behind a green fence. Continue far to the next intersection and take another left. You should see a food cart on the sidewalk to the left and I'll clothing store with a black storefront on your right. Move forward a bit until you are across from the windows of the black storefront. Turn to your right and you'll see a black fire hydrant on the ground. Touchdown is sitting at the base of the black fire hydrant. Turn and face the same direction as traffic, red umbrellas to the right and move forward paying attention to the scaffolds on the right. 
There is a orange ladder leaning on the scaffolding, stop just after you pass the ladder and green dumpster and look to the left.

See a sign on the sidewalk, it is black with red and white lettering.
Touchdown is atop the center of that sign. Orient yourself so the store with the green awning is on your left.  Walk to the end of the block and take a left.  Go straight through the next two intersections.  Just as you enter the third intersection, stop.  Looking straight ahead, find the subway entrances, they are green fences surrounding a staircase underground on both sides of the street in front of you.  Look at the subway entrance on the right.  There are two light posts on the subway entrance, touchdown is on the left light bulb, on the green part. You are on a one way road, go in the direction of the flow of traffic. You will pass by a construction are on the right. When you come to the very next intersection you will make a right, there will be a large brown delivery truck open to see the boxes in the back. At the very next intersection you will make another right. There will be trees to your left and red and black brick buildings to your right. Go straight past the part that you can veer to the left. Stop before you get to the flatbed truck loaded up with green construction materials on your right and you will also see a large red dump truck on your left. Touchdown is in the center of the rear tire on the flatbed truck with construction materials on your right. turn so that the construction barrier is to your right. At the intersection turn right, continue to the next intersection, you will se multi colored newspaper boxes on the left. Take a right here, there will be trash bins on wheels in front of a scaffolding covered building. you will pass construction debris on your right , you will come to a fenced in construction  area to your left with an orange sign in the shape of a triangle, inside this area is a port potty, the bear is on the sticker on the door Turn to face the same direction as traffic. There will be a construction site on your left. Walk to the end of the block. 

At the intersection, turn right. Walk to the end of the block again.

At this intersection, turn right again. There will be a shop with an orange and dark red awning on your right. 

You will walk almost to the end of this block. As you near the intersection, look to your right. There is a restaurant with clay roof tiles on your right. Touchdown is on the circle in the middle of the sign for this place.

 Turn so your traveling with traffic.  At the first intersection, take a right. Move up the block and take another right at the next intersection.  Your going about half way down the block. You are getting close when you see a large American flag on the right side. Stop when your directly in front of the flag sticking out of the building Touchdown is on the tip of the flagpole.  Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. You should now be facing an intersection, and there should be some scaffolding with a green overhang to your right.

2. Move forward, passing through the aforementioned intersection. Continue on to the next intersection, and take a left. When you reorient yourself, you should be in the middle of a divided street, and there should be a few red awnings and signs down the road in front of you.

3. Move forward, passing through the next intersection (the other part of the divided street). After heading towards the aforementioned red awnings and signs, the road will curve to the left and lead into the next intersection. Pass through this one, too.

4. Keep moving forward until you reach the next intersection. One you're standing in the middle of it, stop. If you look at the building to the left, you should see a rectangular, blue sign above a red awning. At the bottom of this sign is a circle with an arrow pointing to the left. Touchdown is in the center of this circle.

Good luck! :) Turn until you have a black metal fence to your right. Walk forward into the next street that is right in front of you. Turn right. There should be a gray fire hydrant with a tan top in front of you to the right. Walk forward past the white building on your right. Stop at the intersection that has three yellow posts on the planted road divider. Turn left here so the yellow posts are on your right and the maroon awnings are on your left. Walk straight until you reach the next intersection and turn left. You should see the road divide into two directions. Take the left side of the divide and walk straight. There should be blue metal posts on your left. Walk straight to the next four way intersection. You should pass a building with some stained glass windows and two red doors on the way. Touchdown is placed to your right at the base of a yellow and red striped post with a gold ball on top. Orient yourself with traffic and proceed straight behind the gray pickup truck. Turn left at the first intersection. Turn left again at the next intersection. Just before the next intersection, there is a no turns sign on the left. Touchdown is in the middle of this sign.   Follow the flow of traffic and go to the intersection.  Turn right.  Forward, take next right.  Continue to intersection and turn right.  You will be facing on coming traffic.  Take a few steps forward.  On the left side you will see green construction poles.  The last pols closest to the street.  Bear is on the ground at the bottom of the pole. Turn around and go with the flow of traffic and turn right at the first traffic light.Go past the first traffic light and as you near the next traffic light you will see an American flag in front of you just past the traffic light (but do not go past the light) and that is where you will find Touchdown Begin moving with the flow of traffic. A light-colored building with four dark red awnings will be on your right. At the first traffic light, turn right.

At the second traffic light, turn right again. After you turn, a row of blue rental bikes will be on your left. When you get to a side road on your left, just keep going straight. You'll now be walking alongside a park.

When you arrive at a traffic light that's in front of a closed park entrance, turn right. Move forward to the green scaffolding on your right. Just after the scaffolding begins, there is a planter with a few plants and a tree. touchdown is sitting right in the center of the planter, leaning up against the tree.  Turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  The grey concrete barrier should be on your right as you move.  Walk forward, and keep going as your road slopes down to street level.  Keep going straight, passing two streets on your right.  When you see two orange signs on a lamppost (one of which has a large black arrow on it) take the next right, which will be a large intersection with crosswalks.  You should see a white limo parked on your right with its trunk open as you make this turn.

Walk down the road following a bike path on your right and some green grass behind a small red wall on the median to your left.  Stop just before you pass a crosswalk on your right, and look in front of you.  On the right-hand sidewalk you should see a small yellow box.  Touchdown the Bear is sitting on top of this box.   Orient yourself with the flow of traffic. There will be three trashtrucks on the right hand side.Go straight to the first intersection and turn left.

There will be a building with lots of windows on the left side. Go straight with the flow of traffic. Before you get to the next intersection you will see a bridge ahead. Right before the bridge on the left you will see two pillars holding the bridge up. The touchdown is at the base of the first pillar. Turn so the nearest intersection is behind you and you have green construction fencing on your right. Walk forward. 

There will be a jog where you appear to go through the fencing. Keep going forward. 

At another point, you'll see some green fencing partially blocking the road. You'll need to go a slight left to get back on the main road - you want to keep going forward.

At the first intersection with zebra crossings, turn a hard right. Go down to the next intersection - a 3 way one. Turn left.

There will scaffolding to your right as you walk down this road. Just past where the scaffolding ends, there is a smaller tree. Go down two more trees. At the third tree after the scaffolding, Touchdown is sitting at the base.

 Turn so the little park is on your left and you're facing the intersection that's right near you.  Move into the intersection and go straight through it.  The next intersection you come to has many roads that come together.  You don't want to take the first/closest right turn.  You want the farther/wider right turn that will put you alongside the orange and white construction barriers (they'll be on your left).
After you've turned you should have those orange and white barriers on the left, and a low brick wall along some plantings and trees and bushes on your right. At the next intersection you come to (a regular four-way), turn right.     
You'll now have a blue restaurant on your right.  Go forward to the intersection that's not too far ahead. Stop in the middle of this intersection.  The building on the left just ahead of you is yellow with a blue awning.  There is a yellow planter box out front that doesn't have plants in it.  The bear is in that planter box.  Align yourself so the blue scaffolding is on your left and move down that road. Walk to the intersection and take a left. Move down this road until just past the orange and white safety cones. To your right is a revolving door. Touchdown is at the base of the door.  face with flow of traffic. go straight to first intersection, passing the green awning held up by the scaffolding on your left. when you reach the intersection, make a right. after you have made a right, there should be a red building on your left side. head straight, past the building, and make a right at the next intersection. after you have made a right, there should be a leafless trees on your right just up ahead. Go straight past them. keep heading straight past the american flag on your right. keep going until you are next to the brick building with the green ridged awning. On the left side of the street, Touchdown is in front of the rightmost gold door. Turn to go with traffic.  A white mail truck is on your left, a grey bus on your right.

When you see a doubledecker bus, you should also get an additional arrow going back and to the right, take it.  If you did it right, you should be right behind a blue and purple double decker bus, go right into the parking garage.

Go forward until the valets are directly on your right.

Turn towards the valets and you should see a very bright lit bluish screen in the back.  Touchdown is on it the screen. turn so you are following the flow of traffic go to the first intersection take a right at the next intersection take another right go straight through the next two intersections and stop  just after the second intersection  there is scaffolding on both sides of you take one more step forward and on your left there are two bicycles tied up to the scaffolding touchdown is sitting on the seat of the bicycle that is nearest you  Turn so the green and red fire escapes are on your right.  At the first intersection, turn right going the wrong way down a one-way street.  Go down this road and turn right when you can at the next intersection.  This should put a small yellow fence on your right.

Go straight for a bit.  The road will eventually offer you go veer left or stay straight.  You want to veer left.  If you did it right, you should pass a red octagon shaped sign on your right.

Stop when you get to the solid white line that crosses the street where the arrows point to it.  You'll see a guy on a bike at the line.

On the road, behind the bike is a manhole cover.  Touchdown is on the manhole cover.  This NOT the manhole on the sidewalk. Turn yourself so you are facing with traffic and head down the street.  You should see a red banner on your left as you move.  Turn right at next intersection.  Construction scaffolding will be on your right as you move down this street.  Turn right at the next intersection so the orange and white construction barriers are on your left.  Continue to next intersection and turn right.  You will pass a blue tarp covered bundle on your right and construction scaffolding on your left.  Continue straight through next intersection until you are just at the start of the next street.  You will see to red rectangles on the sidewalk to your left.  Touchdown is sitting on the sidewalk at the base of the gray traffic pole near the red rectangles. Turn so you can see a blue sign on your left and you are facing the same direction as the cars are parked on this road.  Travel to the end of this long street and turn right when you get to the intersection.  There's a red brick wall on your right.  Follow that brick wall and turn right at the next intersection.  Travel to the end of this road and stop before you enter the intersection.  Look to the right corner and there is a red pillar with a lot of stickers on it.  Touchdown is sitting on top of that red pillar that is near the corner to the left of the garbage can. Turn and head into the intersection that has the purple awning ahead.  Hang a left so the purple awning is on your right.
Turn right at the next intersection so the green lane is on your left.
Go forward to the next intersection and turn right.  You will have a red awning on your immediate left and a green awning on the right.
Go straight through the next intersection.
When you get to the following intersection you should see a bright red pole on the left corner by a green trashcan.  Turn right.
When you do you will see a dumpster on the road covered with a blue tarp.
In front of that is a bike leaning against a pole with a red sign at the top.  Touchdown is on the red sign. With the scaffolding to your right, go straight until you see a building with a glass roof up ahead. Take a right. Go straight and take another right at the pine tree. Go through the cones and stop when you see a pale panel on the sidewalk to the right. Touchdown is on the center of it. Go with traffic to the corner and turn left. When you turn you will see a walkway over the road ahead. Go down this road, under the overhead walkway, through the 3-way corner.

On the right is a light brick building with 3 purple banners on the front. Touchdown is just underneath of the middle purple banner, his head touching the pole.

 Align yourself with the flow of traffic via the parked cars. Head up to the intersection and make a left. You should see another left shortly after at the next intersection to take.

You should have a tan bottom, red brick top building on your left now. Follow this road down to almost the next intersection.

Just before the intersection, you should see a series of paintings, and in the middle, a painted heart. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the heart. Turn so the building with the black fire escapes, blue tarps hanging down, and metal dumpers outside is on your right.  Walk to the end of the block, but don't pass the crosswalk.  Instead, turn to your right to look straight at the door of the corner building on the right.

You will see a white camera with a black eye to the right and above the door, and directly above the left of two windows inset in the brown brick wall.

Touchdown is happily impaled on the black eye of the camera. Align yourself so that the green subway entrance with two lights is on your right. Head to the right at the intersection, and another right shortly after. You'll head all the way down to the next intersection past the theater on this street, and make a right here. Stop just before the row of bikes on your left ends, and there will be a person dancing in a pink ad on a bus stop. Touchdown is in the persons face on the ad. You are on a one way road, go with the flow of traffic. Go to the next intersection and make a left. You will have green awnings on light colored buildings to your left and black awnings on light colored buildings to your right. At the next intersection yo will make another left and stop on the crosswalk. To you right is scaffolding and to your left is a light colored building. Turn slightly to your left to see a black and silver fire hydrant Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant.  Face the same direction as traffic and go straight to the intersection. Make a left turn. Go straight one block and you'll pass some red awnings on the right side. Make another left turn at the intersection. On the right are windows that have burgundy colored rectangles in the windows. Go straight down this block to the next intersection then make another left turn. Now you have a brick building on your left this is almost orange/red colored with bars on the windows. Looking at that building you'll go past a door then a little further. Look on the left side and you'll see a tandem (double rider) bike  and then a red bike with a white seat. Touchdown is on the white seat.  Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic. At the intersection, turn right. At the next intersection, turn right and stop. Right after the turn, on your right is a fire hydrant. Touchdown is on top of it. Go with traffic into the nearest intersection. Turn left. Green scaffolding will be on your right. Keep straight at the right turn only. Turn left at the next intersection.
Turn left again at the next intersection. A row of blue banners on a building will be on the right. Stop just pass the blue banners and look to the right. There will be a bike locked up on a M shaped pole in front of you. There is a basket on back of the bike. Touchdown is sitting in the basket.
 There is a building with white letters and a blue and red dot.  Walk towards it.  Keep going down that road, and turn left at the first intersection.    The road will have blue rental bikes on your right.  Keep going down this road.  Stop just before the next intersection.  You will have a bright green store on your left.  There is a fire hydrant in front of the store.  The bear is sitting on top. Turn yourself around so you are moving with the traffic. Keep going forward. You might get off track because of the maps but you will land right back in the same lane. Go to the intersection. Take a right. Go just before the next intersection and look right. You should see a a yellow pole next to a van. The touchdown is the top of the pole.  Turn so the church is on the left behind you. Walk forward, past the stop lights, and past the intersection after that. Continue walking forward until you get to the next intersection, which should have a store with green awning on your front right. Turn right here. Walk forward, and pass a store with glowing yellow numbers on the left. Continue walking forward until you come to a playground and a yellow school sign on the right. You should see two dumpsters on the left side of the playground. Touchdown is sitting on top of the blue dumpster.  Turn so that the stores are on your left. Go forward and take a right turn at the intersection. Walk forward just a bit, and you will soon be able to make a U turn into the other side of traffic. Turn left, then left again to make the U turn. You should now see a dark tent with an American flag on your right. Continue to the intersection, and go past it. Keep going, and you will pass a brick building with brick balconies on your right. Walk to a little more than halfway past the second brick building with brick balconies. You should be just before the tall tower of the building. There will be a store with big bold red letters at the bottom of the building. Touchdown is in the center of store logo in the middle of the sign.  Align yourself with the flow of traffic, and head to the intersection. Take a right, and ignore the first right turn. At the intersection, make another right. Stop when you get the chance to make a left turn, and there should be an empty lot with vines on your right. In front of the black van in front of you, there should be a silver tipped hydrant with silver poles. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant. position yourself so you are following the traffic direction. Go to the intersection. 

Turn right at this intersection. Go straight.

When you reach next intersection, turn right. 

Now the  construction with green board is on your right. Go straight following traffic on this road. Stop at the bridge. 

Turn right in front of the bridge, before going across the bridge.  You should see some police cars on the left side of the road once you turned. Go forward pass the two police cars . continue going that direction until you reach the next intersection. It will be two "one-way" street. On your left you will see a street light pole with a green sign with white letters, a black sign with white arrow and black letters and another sign that is not facing you. The touch down is on the green sign in the middle of it.  Turn so you are following traffic, there are fences attached to a building with what looks like sticky notes on them, head down this street. You will see a building with scaffolding on the right with a green roof and purple banners on it, continue straight. You will pass a light, and go to the next light. Turn left here, there is a restaurant with outdoor seating to your left, this is a one way street. There is a large ornate brick building on your right with wrought iron fencing just before the next intersection. At the intersection go straight and take a left, there is a pink flowering plant hanging from a light post, the bear is in the flowers Turn with the flow of traffic and head straight.  After the white building with blue fence, continue forward.  Keep the parking area on your left.  When the road ends, turn left.  The same parking structure will be on your left.  At the next intersection, turn left.  Take a small step forward then look left.  There is a yellow magazine stand.  The bear is on top.   Turn so you are heading with the flow of traffic.  Take the first right, then the next right.  Follow this road into the next intersection.  When you have the 1st 4 way option, turn right.  Continue until you the the option to make a U-Turn.  Go that way then take one step and stop.  Look to your right at the orange barricades.  The 2nd one has a light on it.  The bear is on that light. Go in the same direction as traffic. Go straight at the 3 way intersection, passing potted flowers on your left. At the next intersection, stop just before entering it to turn. Looking to your left, you will be in the first lane of oncoming traffic. See a rectangular red square on the corner of the sidewalk on the left. Touchdown is sitting right in the middle of it.  Going with the flow of traffic, go straight through the first intersection.  There will be scaffolding on your right. Turn right at the next intersection   When you get to the next intersection, turn right.  There's plants for sale on the side walk on your left. Halfway down this block will be some scaffolding on your left.  Across from it on the right side of the street, there is a brown awning with pink writing.  There's some graffiti to the left of the door there.  Touchdown is on the graffiti.  Face the same direction as traffic. Green scaffolding will be on your left. Go straight to the end of the block. Make a right turn. You are on a larger street still going same direction as traffic. Go straight one block. You will pass green then white covered scaffolding on the right side. Make another right turn. That same scaffolding will wrap around the corner and stay on your right side. There is a row of blue bikes just ahead on the left. You won't reach the end of this block. Go straight. You'll pas a pile of bags and boxes on the left under some scaffolding. Go until you are almost at the end of that scaffolding on the left side.There are 3 traffic cones on the left side. Touchdown is on the last one the one closest to the corner end of the scaffolding.  Orient yourself with traffic on the one way street. Continue straight through the first intersection and turn right at the second intersection. There will be green scaffolding on your left. Continue down the street until you can see the next intersection. On the right there will be a purple colored building with a black staircase railing and a black awning in front of it. Touchdown is on the handle of the front right most pillar of the black staircase railing.  Align yourself so both scaffolding is on your right. There should be a food truck on the street ahead on y our left. You'll make an immediate left turn and the potted plants with chairs should be on your left. Head up to the next intersection to make another left, and shortly after, another left. There will be a red awning with two stars on it to your right after the turn. Head down to the next intersection to make a final left. Stop with the scaffolding on your right just starting, and there will be two green dumpster bins under it. Touchdown is in the middle of the white sign on the front dumpster. Stand so you are following the flow of traffic, passing blue flags hanging on your right. Continue down this road until you reach a 4-way intersection (just past a row of bikes); turn right. Go halfway to the next light, and stop and face left. There is a glass doorway (under scaffolding), with a yellow/orange sign behind it. Touchdown is above the door. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  There will be scaffolding on your right with a white banner and blue text draped across it and a red fire hydrant below it.
At the first intersection, make a u-turn by turning left and left again to go back down the same road you're on but in the opposite direction and still with traffic.
Head through the intersection ahead and you will see scaffolding on your right with a grey banner with green text draped across it.
At the next intersection, make another u-turn,
The building to your right will have a large black sign made up of the window panels with a large white logo and text on it.  At the next intersection, maneuver yourself until you are smack dab in the middle of the intersection and medians.  Directly in front of you are two black bells on the median.  Touchdown is hiding on the right bell. Turn so the nearby intersection is in front of you, and the shop with all the shirts in the window is on your left.  Go forward into the intersection and turn right.  
On this block, you'll have a building on your left that has a black wall with big red stripes. Go forward one short block to the next light, and turn right.
Now you'll have a park on your left and construction scaffolding on your right. Go forward until you're past the park and you have a big stone building on your left.  Along the wall of this stone building, you'll pass a set of gray double doors,  then you'll come to two cement planters.  The first one has a bush in it, the second one does not.  Stop when you've just passed the two planters.  Look back to the planter that's empty.  The bear is on top of it. 

 Turn so you are going with traffic and the traffic light is behind you. Go straight down this road. Turn left at the light. Go to the next light and take another left. You will see a yellow and red umbrella on the sidewalk to your left. Go straight with traffic. Go a little more than a block and stop when you are beside the big brown delivery truck parked on the left side of the street. Look to your right. Touchdown is sitting between the two words written in orange neon on the store sign. Orient yourself so that there is an intersection directly in front of you and scaffolding to your right.  Enter the intersection and turn right (the arrows might be a bit confusing, so make sure once you turn you see scaffolding on your right and a white storefront on your left.  Pass the two 3-way intersections.  Immediately after the 2nd 3-way intersection, you will enter a 4-way intersection. Turn left there.  There will be tan/off-white storefronts on your left.  Go straight through the first intersection.  There will be a building with huge white pillars on your left.  Pass these pillars.  You should then see a couple red doors on your left that are set into a building with a tan block first story.  Pass the first of these doors and stop.  Turn 90 degrees to your left.  The big pillars will now be in your view and you will be facing a big window with a rounded top.  This window is to the right of the huge pillars.  There is a keystone at the top of this window (a rectangular-ish stone at the very top of window's moulding).  Touchdown is sitting in front of this keystone.   Stand with the grass to your right, and move forward to the stoplight (passing straight through the 3-way turn). At the 4-way intersection, turn right, and you curve around until you're almost moving back in the opposite direction in which you started (but on a different street). Continue in this direction, passing a playground on your left. Then pass straight through an intersection, and on your left you will then pass a grassy area.  Continue straight rather than taking the road veering left. Then pass the brick wall to your right. Near the end of the brick wall, on your right is a small white and red sign on a street light pole. Touchdown is on that sign. Turn and move against the flow of traffic. At the first intersection take a left. Move down the block, at the next intersection take another left. Go down the block, watching the right side. After quite some ways you will see some scaffolding on the right, under a red overhang. Stop right in front of the beginning of the scaffolding. You will see a cutout on the overhang with a yellow street light in it. Touchdown is on top of the yellow street light.  Orient yourself so you are moving against the flow of traffic and heading towards a tunnel.
Head all the way through the tunnel and pass under the three red lights attached to the beam overhead.
A bit further and you should see the backs of two signs overhead.  Stop when you're under them.  Turn around and you will find Touchdown hiding on the middle green light on the beam ahead. Align yourself so you are with traffic. Walk to the four way intersection and take a left. Take a long walk forward to the next four way intersection. Take a left here. Continue forward and stop at the four way intersection. To your right are some potted plants. Touchdown is on top of the plant the farthest to the right.  You're going to want to go with the flow of traffic. You're going to follow this flow of traffic under the bridges until you start to see construction cones and yellow and black reflectors. You should see a blue sign in front of you, a greyish sign with blue lettering and a yellow sign with black lettering. Your touchdown will be the middle of the blue and greyish sign where the colors collide.  Orient yourself so that the fancy white building with a gold dome is in front of you.  Move forward such that you are following the street that curves around to the left.  You will curve around onto a major street where you will be facing oncoming traffic.  There will be trees surrounded by black metal fencing on your left.  Go straight through the first three-way intersection.  You will they come to another three-way intersection with an all-glass building up ahead of you.  At this intersection, stay to your right such that the all-glass building is on your left and you are still facing oncoming traffic.  Go straight through one intersection.  When you get to the second intersection, stop immediately after you cross over the first crosswalk.  Turn 90 degrees to your right and look down.  There is an orange cone sitting on the half-moon curb.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this cone.   Position yourself so the walking path is on your right and the bridge is ahead of you in the distance. You'll be walking alongside a park for a bit. Right before the park ends, you'll have the option to slightly merge left or right. Stay left, so you'll continue on this road rather than veer right when the service drive begins. 

Look for the brick building on your right that has two sections of rounded balconies with black wrought iron fences. In front of that building is a fire hydrant between two short poles. Touchdown is sitting on top of that fire hydrant.  Turn towards the intersection and turn left after going into it.  You will see scaffolding to the left above a long row of blue bikes.  Hang a left at the next intersection.  You will see an umbrella on the left that is yellow and red.  You should see scaffolding ahead on the left.  Just past the red awning on the left, turn left at the intersection.
Go the next intersection, stopping just shy of the scaffolding on the right.  You will see a round blue sign just in front of the scaffolding where Touchdown is hiding. Align yourself so that the building with blue trim is on your left, go straight to the next intersection and take a right.  Turn right onto the first street that you come to. It's a brick road and the window on your left has yellow writing. Take it to the next street and turn right.  You'll see lots of blue bikes to the left. Go down to the next intersection and you'll see a trash basket on your right.  Touchdown is hiding at the top of that trash basket. Orient yourself so you are going against the flow of traffic with the ornate arched structure in the distance ahead of you. Move forward going past the crosswalk just in front of you. Follow the road towards the archway. Soon you will meet another four way intersection. Go straight so that you are diverging left away from the archway. There should be a chicken Shop with a red awning in the distance to the left. Keep moving forward and soon you will come to a three-way intersection. Keep to the right And continue to move forward go straight past the four-way intersection. At this point you should have a median to the left of you with overgrown brush And a small stone wall on the right. Move forward between the stone wall and the median until you get to the next intersection. In order to go right here you will have to go forward until you meet a three-way intersection. Go backwards and to the left so that you are in the middle of the intersection (this part is tricky). Reorient yourself so that the building with the red awning is on your left and the construction is to your right. Continue forward down the crowded street. Go straight past the next intersection. And you should see several red paper lanterns hanging  above the road the road in front of you. Continue moving forward so that you were in the crosswalk at the next intersection. Turn to your left and you'll see a trash barrel in front of a light pole at the end of the crosswalk. Touchdown is sitting at the base of the trash barrel. Move down the street in the same direction as the traffic. At the intersection, turn left and continue past the busses parked on the right. At the intersection, turn left. Touchdown is on top of a planter to the left. Go with traffic flow and at the corner in front of you turn right. When you turn you will see a large red awning halfway down the street.

Go to the next corner and turn right. When you turn rental bikes will be on the right and scaffolding on the left. Go down this longer block until you see trashcans lined up in a row on the right side on the sidewalk, just after a black metal fence. Just before them is a red hydrant with a silver top. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant.  Turn so you are going the correct way down this road. At the intersection make a right turn. You will go under a pedestrian bridge. At the next intersection make another right turn. Once you are turned you will see the ramp/walkway leading up to the pedestrian bridge on your right. Go all the way down this long block. At the intersection make another right turn and go a very short distance forward then stop. On your left is a corner of a building with green awnings and on the right is a dirty faded red awning with some blue and yellow flags hanging from it. There is a trashcan at the right corner. Touchdown is on top of it. Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Go forward a bit into the intersection and turn right. At the next intersection, turn right. Soon there's an option to veer right/back. Do so, and soon on your right is a green awning with a wooden pallet outside. Touchdown is on top of the pallet. Turn so the subway stop is on your right. Go straight. At the light take a left. At the next light take another left. There will be a store with a blue awning on your right. Go straight. At the light take a left. Stop a very short distance down the street stop before you get to the yellow cartoon character represented on the right side of the  road in front of a store. Touchdown is sitting on the head of this character.  Face the yellow school bus and go straight.  If you see blue benches on your right a ways down, keep going.  Keep going until you see the red (octagon shaped) signs ahead.  At this intersection, turn right.  You may need to get closer to the red car.  Move forward until you see the entrance to the building with the name and some art of people there.  Touchdown is in the flower pot on the left side of the entrance. Going with the flow of traffic, follow the road until the next intersection.  Turn left at the intersection.  At the next light, turn left.  As soon as you turn, there's a door inset in the red building on the left hand side.  Touchdown is setting in front of the door. Go with the flow of traffic such that there is an intersection just in front of you.  Enter this intersection and turn right.  You'll now be on a street with a row of trees on the left.  
Go to the next intersection and turn right again.  There will now be a red and white striped building on your right.  
Go down this street.  When you come to the first intersection (the one with the street that runs diagonally), go straight.  At the second intersection, cross over the first crosswalk but then stop immediately.  Turn to your left.  There is a black wire trash can on the sidewalk.  Touchdown is sitting on the sidewalk in front of this trashcan.   On your right you should see a building with a blue awning that stretches over the sidewalk. On the left is a building with a similar awning that is green. Head straight to the first intersection. Now make a right. Continue straight but do not go all the way to the intersection. You will see a building with a maroon colored awning beside a building with a green colored awning. Both buildings have white letters for their names. Touchdown is sitting on the maroon awning in between the two words. Rotate to face away from the nearest intersection.

Proceed to the next intersection
Turn right at this three way intersection

Proceed to the next intersection
Proceed forward through the intersection

Proceed to the next intersection
Turn left at the intersection.

Advance a short distance.
Stop.
Turn 180 degrees around and return to the intersection.

Proceed forward through the intersection again. This will be the same as though you had taken a right at the intersection when you initially approached it, but I apparently enjoy giving pointless directions.

Proceed a short distance forward, roughly a quarter of a block.
To your left, you will see a business with a bright yellow awning. Beyond, you will see a business with an orange awning.

Pass the yellow awning and approach the orange awning.
If you are aligned with the orange awning, you have gone slightly too far and should move back.

On the left side of the street, near the orange awning, notice a planter filled with flowers. The bear is sitting on top of the center green plant in the planter. Position yourself so the short carved cement wall is on your left and the red scaffolding is on your right. At that first intersection in front of you, turn right. The red scaffolding remains on your right and now there is green scaffolding on your left side. 

Move down this one-way street to the next traffic light, and turn right. Now, an orange and white construction barrier is on your left and a bus stop is just ahead on your right. Go straight through the next two intersections and slow down. Pass a building on your right with arched doorways. Look to your left, and you'll see a business with a red sign with white writing. There's a table in front of the windows of that business with a black and red banner on it. Touchdown is sitting right in the middle of that table.  Turn and walk in the direction of traffic, immediately coming upon an intersection. Go right.  There should be a building with an odd gun like shape on the roof ahead to your left. Before getting to it, go right at the next intersection. This is a small one way street with shops on the right that have green awnings. Walk ahead. You will pass by shops with construction on your right, keep going. On your left, notice the short brick walls with brown doors in them. Walk till you just get past the brick walls and stop.  Turn to face those walls and you should see a doorway just to the right of where they begin.  Touchdown is sitting on the ground in the middle of the doorway.  Walk with the flow of cars to the intersection.  Turn right.  Walk to the next intersection.  Turn right.  There is usually someone who sells hats and scarves on this corner.  Walk forward one step.  Look across the street from this vendor.  Bear is on top of the fire hydrant.  Go with traffic on the one way. Turn right at the first intersection.  Turn right again at the next intersection. A hot dog stand will be on the corner. Look right for the white and yellow road barriers. Stop just pass the break in the barriers for the open garage There is a red pole to the left of the open garage with a cup on it. Touchdown is sitting where the cup is on top of the red pole. Rotate so that there is a business on your right with Red raised lettering above the door and you are facing the closest intersection, move into the intersection and turn Left onto a one way street.
There is now scaffolding to your left  and a brick building with green awnings to the right.
Continue  straight ahead down this long street to the traffic light passing a fenced in parking lot to the right along the way.
Travel through the traffic light and Stop in the center of the intersection.
To the left is a storefront with a green awning in front of which is a trash can next to the light post Touchdown is sitting atop the trash can
 Align yourself so that the two traffic signs are on your right, and head with the flow of traffic. Take a left at the intersection, then another left after.

Head in to the three way intersection ahead, and there should be three yellow poles in front of you. Touchdown is on the middle yellow pole. Turn so that the closed store is on your right. It has a red sign above it and is covered by metal, with a white sign with black and red lettering on it. Once that is on your right, continue down the street. You will pass a green shop on your right. Continue until you get to an intersection. Turn right at the intersection. You will see a large yellow grid on the building up to the left. Follow along this street until the intersection where the building with the yellow grid pattern is. Turn right. Follow this street until you see another intersection. Just before the intersection, there is a trash can with a green liner. Touchdown is at the base of the trashcan. Turn so you're walking with the flow of traffic. Go straight across the nearby intersection and continue until the next intersection, then turn right. Turn right at the next intersection and keep going straight until you arrive at a store with a blue awning on the right. Touchdown is sitting on top of that awning, in the middle above the door. Put the building with the red on your right.  Head straight.  Go through 2 intersections (Not counting the one you start in) and turn right at the 3rd.  Continue on this street, but stop before you enter the crosswalk of the next intersection.  Look left.  There are 2 silver poles.  The bear is on the left one.   You need to orient yourself so you are going with the flow of trffic. You will see a bunch of yellow cars on your right with construction stuff on the left. Keep forward as you follow the buses on your right until you hit the stoplight when they are behind your. You need to take a u turn and be on the other side of the right now. On your left you will be passing all the colorful buses. You should see a bunch of orange on your right because of construction on the building.  Go through the first stoplight and you should see dirt and construction on your right. To your right you should see two bright cones and and old worn out cone. Your touchdown will be the top of the worn out one.  Go in the same direction as traffic.  Move forward to the first intersection.  Turn right.  There will be a small park behind a fancy metal fence on the right.  Go through the first intersection.  After you go through it, you should see a light-green and off-white building to your left.  Pass all of the part of the building that is light green until you see only the bright yellow part of the building to your left. On your left is a metal bench.   Touchdown is sitting on this bench, in the middle seat.   From your staring position, turn around so that you can see three orange barrels and a bright yellow sign (with two black stick figures) on the left-hand sidewalk.  Go forward onto this road.  It will be a tricky first step, but make sure you can still see that bright yellow sign on your left.  If you can see the sign and a big red and white truck on your left, then keep walking forward.  It will be a long walk, so just go straight through the first intersection and then straight through the second intersection.  There should be a big gray-brick church on your left after the second intersection.  Now keep walking forward.  When you get into the middle of the next intersection, turn to your left.  You should see a man in a blue t-shirt on the sidewalk ahead and to your right, and a taxi with a red sign in front of you on your left.  Take a step forward onto this road and you should see a red SUV parked on the right side.  Ahead of you, on the right-hand sidewalk, you should see another bright yellow sign with stick figures.  Walk forward toward it, and you should soon see Touchdown the Bear on top of that sign.  You'll need to be close to the sign to see him, but don't go past the sign. Align yourself with the bridge pillars on your left and the apartment buildings on your right. Head up to the next intersection to take a left, and then shortly after passing under the bridge, make another left. Head halfway down this street until your only choice is to go back or make a left. In front of you behind the car is two white trash bags. Touchdown is sitting on top of the closer trash bag. Position yourself so you're moving with the flow of traffic. Go straight through the first intersection. When you get to the second intersection, turn left. After  you turn, there will be a long business on your right with several dark awnings. When you get to the next intersection, turn left again. You should see a bus stop just up ahead on your right. 

At the next intersection, go straight through, but stop as soon as you get to the crosswalk. There's a white building on your left with dark trim around the windows. Look closer at the corner, and you'll see a green trash can next to a traffic light pole. Touchdown is sitting on top of that trash can on your left.  Turn so the apartment building with the big lawn is on your left. There is a traffic light just in front of you. Move forward and make a right at this three-way intersection, which will put you in a four-way intersection (sort of).  When you're in this four-way-choice spot, turn so the little building that has a green awning will be on your right as you leave the intersection.  Go in that direction, passing the green awning on your right.  
At the next intersection you come to, turn right.  You'll be on a very narrow street with red bricks on the right and light-colored stone on the left.  Go forward to the intersection ahead of you.  You'll have the option of making a hard left or a less extreme left.  You wan the less extreme left (it will take some effort).  You want to be in the lane where you're passing the brick apartment buildings on your right and you'll pass the store with the blue awning on your left.  Just past the store with the blue awning you'll reach another intersection (three way).  Go straight.  
You'll come to a y-split in the road.  Stay to the right to stay on the main, wider street.  Ignore the option to turn left and continue straight toward the traffic light.  Just after ignoring that left turn, look on the right side.  There are several newspaper dispenser boxes that are orange, red, and yellow.  Stop before you're even with them.  The bear is on top of the red box. Turn so that the buildings are on your right and the park is on your left. At the first intersection make a right. Go through the uneven intersection where the road forks, staying to the right to go straight through it. At the next intersection right after that, make a right. There will be a row of parked cars backed into parking spaces on the left. Behind the cars on the left are buildings with green awnings. Touchdown is under the middle awning, sitting at the top of the stairs right in front of the doors.  Orient yourself so that you are facing a street that has angled parking on the right and parallel parking on the left.  The cars in the angled parking have all backed in to their spots.  Go straight; turn right at the first intersection.  There will now be green bike lanes on your left and angled parking again on your right.  Head down this street.  When you get to the intersection, turn left, stopping immediately after you exit the intersection/cross over the crosswalk.  On your right, two solar panels on a pole above a box with a rounded top should be visible.  These panels are black with silver edges.  Touchdown is sitting in front of the right panel.   Align yourself with the flow of traffic on this street. Make a right turn at the intersection, down another small street. At the next intersection, you should see a curved red awning to your left at the nearest corner, with a blue postal box in front of it. Touchdown is on top of the postal box. Make a right step and follow the black van, then left, and up the street again. Follow this road up to the intersection, and make a left. Right before the next intersection, you should see a blue sign with 24 hours on it. Touchdown is on the 4. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic with the intersection near.
Go straight through this intersection.
Turn right at the next intersection.  On your right will be a business with all glass walls and you'll be going against traffic.
Turn right at the next intersection.
As you approach the next intersection, you'll notice a bright blue awning on the right.
You should see a dark pole with a blue band in front of it.  Touchdown is on this blue band.

 Head the same direction as traffic. The red covered scaffolding will be on your left. Go straight at the first intersection.  Go straight again at the second intersection.  You will see green statues on your left side Keep straight until the next intersection. Turn left at the next intersection. There will be a green statue on your left side after you turn. Go straight. You are only going to get about halfway down this long block so back up if you reach the end. There are food trucks on the left side starting by the statue. Once you get past those on the left you'll see large doors to the left and a parked white truck is inside one of those. Go a little further. Right before you get next to the blue doors with blue fencing on the left side come to a stop. You will not be next to them yet. At the restaurant that is right before those line yourself up with the yellow striping on the ground in front of that restaurant. Touchdown is on the outer corner of the yellow. Move with the flow of traffic, past the tall brick building on your left followed by sports courts, until the first intersection. At the intersection, turn right. Pass the newspaper stands on your right. At the next intersection, take another right. Walk past green scaffolding on the right. Before the scaffolding ends, there is a white sign with blue writing. Touchdown is on that sign. Turn around and align yourself with the flow of traffic, there should be a blue awning on your left and a blue and red one on your right. Head up to the intersection to make a left, then another left very shortly afterward. Head down this road a bit to make a final left at the next intersection.

Head in to the next intersection, and forward just a tiny bit. On your left, you should see a silver hydrant with a green bottom, to the right of a stick figure mural. Touchdown is on the silver tip of the hydrant. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Turn right at the next intersection, you should see 2 orange cones on the right when you do.
Go straight through the next intersection and you'll see a long line of cones on the right hand side.
Turn right at the next intersection and on your right above the shop is an interesting colored building trimmed in blue and red.
Go forward until you get to the building with a large red sign and a cross on the right.
Touchdown is on the cross (sorry if this offends you). Orient yourself so that the corner with fencing and barbed wire is on your left. Proceed forward. Stop just before the building with tall red doors on the right. Touchdown is on the top of the flag extending from this building. Follow traffic into the intersection and go left. Go to the end of the block and make another left.  Continue down the one way street, where you will pass on your right a very bright neon green overhang and window dividers painted bright yellow and then a row of white Jersey barriers that ends in two orange ones.  Walk slightly past that and rotate around, so you're looking at the last orange one straight on. This is an important step. Don't stop too soon.

You should see an orange plastic pole shape thing, which is the only one of its kind anywhere here, on top of the orange Jersey barrier at the end. Touchdown is on top of that.  Follow traffic, with the park with the courts behind the black fence to your right, and go right at the light. Go through the next one, and stop just before you reach the end of the building with the bricks painted blue and adorned with flowers and butterflies, and before drawing even with the hydrant ahead and on your right.  
Touchdown is atop the white cap of that black hydrant. Go with traffic flow all the way down to the first intersection you come to and turn right. 

Go down through the next intersection, but not too far through. 

There will be a bright blue awning on the right with white lettering. Above that bright blue awning is a fire escape and to the right of the fire escape is an air conditioner sticking out of the window. Touchdown is on top of that air conditioner. Begin moving with the flow of traffic. The large construction vehicles will be parked behind a fence on your left. Go to the first intersection and turn right. There will immediately be a yellow newspaper stand on your left and a yellow bus parked on your right.

Go straight through the first intersection. A little farther down the street, you'll see a light gray building with blue columns and a tile-patterned exterior on the upper levels. Look for the steps leading into the building. Beyond the steps are gray double doors. Touchdown is sitting on the ground in the center of the two doors.  If you look around there should be a beige building on your right and a green awning. You want to head in the same direction as the the red building with a staircase and a green awning if you check your surrounding. Make a left turn at the intersection when you arrive. Follow the road until you reach another intersection. At this intersection make a left turn. You should be in an alley. If you go up a few steps there should be a bicycle leaning on a tree. There should be a white car next to the bike. Up ahead at least one step is a silver car and a light green car. The tocuhdown is on top of the trash can  From your starting point, turn around so that you see a large poster advertising a smartphone up ahead of you, and two American flags hanging from the building on your left.  Walk forward, and go straight through the first intersection that you come to.  Just make sure that the smartphone billboard is always in front of you, and on the left side of the road.  Keep walking, and you will pass the billboard.  

Stop when you get into the middle of the next intersection.  Step forward, through the intersection, and then, without turning around, take a step back, and to your right.  Again, without turning, you should now be looking directly at some scaffolding and a green wall.  Now you can turn around so that the green wall is on your left, and you see a lot of black and white garbage bags piled up on the left-hand sidewalk up ahead.  If you turn to look to your right, you should see a gray metal food cart with a purple electronic sign.  Turn back to look down the street (toward the trash bags) and walk forward.  If you see a small alley on the right with a dark SUV parked in it, you are on the right track, so you can just keep going straight.  

You will eventually come to an intersection, and see an orange chimney behind a mesh fence in the middle of the road.  Walk forward toward that chimney, and stop when you are right next to it.  You can now turn to your right, so that you are looking down a street with storefronts with black-bordered windows on both sides.  Walk down this street.  You will soon see some scaffolding and a green canopy on the sidewalk to your right.  

Walk forward, into the intersection, and move forward towards a store with large glass windows and a sign with one bright green letter.  Step through the intersection so that this store is on your left.   

There will be a bus stop on the right-hand side of this street.  Touchdown the Bear is sitting on the middle of the bench, under the canopy of this bus stop. Face the direction of the cars, with the brown awning on your left, follow the traffic to the first intersection, and make a right turn. There will now be a red store sign on your right side. Pass it, also passing two traffic lights and stopping after making a right at the third intersection. The first intersection will have a red store sign at the left corner, the second intersection will have a car lot, and the third intersection will have a blue logo on the left corner storefront..
Once you make the right at that third intersection, STOP, you will have green awnings on your left and scaffolding on your right. Look to your left, Touchdown will be on the right eye of the white face in the window under the green awning. Turn to face the closest traffic intersection and make a quick left. Follow the traffic on the right lane, passing the brick buildings, and make a left at the first intersection. You will now have scaffolding on your right. Continue past it, passing the lime green awning on your right, along with the yellow store front and stop when you reach the green construction wall on your right. Look right, on that green wall there is what looks like a small, diamond window. Touchdown is on the center of that diamond. Orient yourself with traffic and proceed. Turn right at the first light. Turn right at the next light too. Stop when you reach the point you are in the single lane that is open. There is a yellow piece of machinery on the sidewalk to your right and Touchdown is in its seat. Turn and go with the direction of traffic on the street you are on. There is a dining area to your left with red awnings over it.  You will see a bridge overhead in the distance ahead of you as you begin down the street. Just before going completely under that bridge, you will go down the street on your right. The bridge should now be to your left. Go ahead, up a small incline. At the top, go straight through the next intersection. There will be a sidewalk on your right, and a short iron fence along your left. At the next intersection, go right. There is usually a hot dog vender on the corner to your left just as you turn on the street. A few doors down on your left, notice a driveway that lets you drive underneath the buildings on your left. Go just past that turn to look at the other side of the street, the right side. You should be in front of another opening for cars underneath the building, it looks like a garage. There are 2 yellow posts, one on each side of the garage. Touchdown is sitting right on top of the yellow post to the right.  turn to flow with traffic and  turn left at the 1st light. there is a brick church with a round window on your right. This street is curvy, follow it to the next intersection, you will go straight then stop, the building to your right has a blue box on it, the bear is on the blue box  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and a vertically striped awning on your right.
At the next intersection you will see a red wrap around awning on the right corner.  Turn left here and head forward past some black fencing on the right and a couple garages.
You should see scaffolding ahead on the left as you go and a black post with a blue band on your right.  Stop just past that and you will see a green pipe sticking out of the ground on the right.  Touchdown is hiding at the base of this pipe.
 From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the middle of a large intersection, and there is a red brick building on the right.  

Walk forward, so that this red-brick building stays on your right.  As soon as you pass the building, there will be a large playground on your right, behind a vertical black fence.  You are on the right track, so go straight forward, but sidestep to your right when you come to a fork in the road, and then keep moving forward (it will be just past a bright yellow sign with black stick figures on your right).  

You should now pass a building with bright red doors on your right.  Keep moving forward, and your street will merge with another, and you will start moving to your right.  

Just move forward with the road.  A green awning with large white letters should stay on your left, and you should see another bright yellow sign up ahead on your right.  

Move forward, past the parked trucks and the blue canopy over the right-hand sidewalk, and walk straight over a pair of crosswalks.  After the crosswalks, there is a shop of your right with blue walls and a blue awning with yellow and white lettering.  Walk just past this shop, and turn right as soon as you are able.  You should see an orange and white chimney in the middle of the street.  

Take a step toward that chimney, and it will probably disappear from view.  Just turn to your right and look back at that blue shop.  In the middle of the awning is a yellow rectangle.  Touchdown is sitting on top of that rectangle, right in the middle. Enter the intersection and look for the corner store with red signs and white letters, also has pictures of hamburgers in the windows. Go down the street to the left of it. At the next intersection you will see a light colored building ahead on the right with a green dome on the roof. Go to middle of this intersection and stop. The building ahead on the left corner has a decorative stone door surround with a stone circle at the top, right in front of the windows. Touchdown is in the middle of that circle. Face so the scaffolding is on your right and the open area behind a metal fence is on your left.  Move forwards and at the traffic light turn left.  You'll see red banners hanging from the building on your right.  When you reach the first intersection, turn left.  Go past the large rack of blue bicycles on your left.  You'll pass over a large speed bump; at this point there will be a large building on your right with concrete and few windows at the ground level and brickwork above.  When you are just past the main entrance to this building, mostly closed off by metalwork, look to your right.  Just to the entrance's left is a faded yellow and white sign: radioactive Touchdown is on this sign. Following the traffic, go to the direction where you see a police car and yellow cab. Stop at the next intersection. You should see a store with blue letter sign on the left and a store with red letter sign on your right. Heading to the intersection and turn right, if you did this right you will see a brown delivery truck on your left and a bus on your right. Follow the traffic to the next intersection, go to the center of the intersection and you will see a shop around the corner with red banner and a sign that has three triangles as the background. The touchdown is on the middle triangle.  turn yourself until you can see a red canopy over a window to your right. Follow that street until you reach the 4 way intersection. To your right there is a trash can in front of a sign pole, touchdown is at the base of the trash can  Follow traffic to the light and go right.  Go right again at the next one.  Go right again at the one after that.  

Stop when the white building is to your right and you can rotate right and be looking directly at its door. Touchdown is atop the grey parking meter. Orient yourself so that the playground is to your left. Move straight for awhile; you'll pass through one intersection. At the next intersection, turn right--BUT don't use the turn farthest right. You need to move left a bit first, so that after the right turn you are on the left side of the road.

 You'll pass a blue dumpster on your right. Then on your left, you'll see a tall roll of orange netting. Touchdown is on the orange netting. Follow traffic through the light you immediately find yourself at, and ignore all the right hand turns, going to the light where you can go left and doing so.  There'll be green construction barricades on both sides and a glass building off in the distance.

Watch on the right, and stop just after you pass the very large heap of rocks behind the orange fencing on that side.  Rotate right.

You should see a small red sign with white text on the pole holding a traffic info sign. Touchdown is adhered to its center. If you're in the right position you're in the intersection and on your right you see a white sign with a black arrow. On your left you'll see a black fence across the street with lots of trees behind it. Also on the left there is a larger fence which appears to be covering a ball field of some sort.
Once you are in position head straight. If you are heading straight you are now running parallel with the ball field to your left. You will eventually go under what appears to be a wooden and green metal bridge with brick pillars.
You will still continue straight.
Eventually you will see what appears to be a soccer field with a large black fence surrounding it on your right.
You will want to just barely passed the soccer field and you will look at the barrier that is made of concrete on your right. You will see white spray-painted there are two lines and in between those appears to be some letters touchdown is sitting directly in front of what appears to be letters in between the two lines of the white spray paint. Turn so you're going with traffic flow. There is a large yellow canopy on the left as you start with red foreign lettering.
Go through the stop signs where the road goes left. Don't turn here.
At the next intersection, don't turn at the first chance, but go a bit further ahead then turn left so you are in the correct lane.
Just as you begin on this road, there will be a bus stop on the right. Touchdown is on the left side sitting on the bench.

 Orient yourself in which there is some black trash can on your right and a red building on your left. Once you pass those you should come across a T intersection in which you should make a right turn. After you made a right turn, continue forward passing all the orange barrels on your right and eventually you will come across a T intersection. Make a left at this intersection, Once you make a left pass all the cars parked on the left hand side. and blue scaffolding. Once you pass the scaffolding you should come across another intersection in which you should make a left turn. Once you make a left turn, you want to stay on the road with the blue scaffolding on your left hand side. Continue forward, passing all the bikes, intersection, and eventually you should come across a building with a basket ball goal behind a gate on your left hand side. Don/t go pass the basketball goal. The touchdown is sitting on top of the rim of the net. Turn and go in the direction with the traffic. Turn right at intersection. Blue on a store to the right. Turn right at intersection and stop. To the right is 2 orange and white cones with a white and black sign. Touchdown is on top of the sign.  Go with traffic flow to the corner and turn left. 

Go down this long block, with traffic flow, to the next corner and turn left. 

When you turn, there is scaffolding on your right. Go just a short bit and turn to the right toward the scaffolding. There is a gray square pole with a blue stripe around the top in front of the scaffolding. Touchdown is on top of that gray square pole. Turn so the construction equipment and orange cones are at your back.  Walk forward (you'll pass through an intersection right away, because you basically started at an intersection).  At the next intersection after that initial one, turn right. When you've almost reached the next intersection,  keep your eye on the buildings on your left.  One of them looks like a painted garage door with a big skull and cross-bones on it.  The bear is sitting on top of the skull. Get all the way into the intersection then make a left. There will be a theatre just ahead on the right. Go one block then make a right turn. Once you turn there are posters on the wall on the left. Go down this block and make another right turn. There are thin red awnings all the way down the left side. Go a short distance. On the right side there are bikes locked up  before and after a grey pole with a blue stripe. Go just past those then stop. Look to the right and the pole with a blue stripe should be just a little behind your position. Touchdown is on top of that pole. Stand so that you are walking with the flow of traffic with one black van. Move forward (passing a blue tarp in the street on your right), through one intersection, and walk until you reach a store with a yellow sign on your right, just before a blue and white store sign. Touchdown is on the white star on the blue and white sign. Rotate to follow traffic down the small one way street with the row of blue bicycles parked to your right, and proceed until you reach the intersection.  Go left, and proceed through the next intersection.

After you're slightly past it, look for a row of six diagonal overhangs on a building ahead to your right, where the two in the middle are blue. Walk towards them, looking on your right as you go for a red fire hydrant set against the building. Touchdown is sitting on the top of the hydrant. Go in the same direction as traffic, going right at the first intersection. After turning, there is a yellow and blue building to your left. At the next intersection, go right. The restaurant on your left has orange awnings. Stop in the middle of the 4 way intersection you come to. Turning to your right, Touchdown is on the red post with stickers all over it on the corner to your left.  Orient yourself with the proper direction of traffic with the closest intersection behind you. 

Proceed down this fairly long block, passing a blue awning on your left and a small bit of scaffolding to the right.

Arrive at the traffic light and turn left. There is now scaffolding along the length of this block on your right.
This is our block, travel straight ahead paying attention to the green boards on the scaffolds to the right and see the third sign on these boards, it has a picture of a puppy and kitten on it.
Touchdown is on the puppy's face
 Look around and you should be near a traffic light head and head towards it and make a left turn. Keep on heading toward straight passing the scaffolding on your left in which you should arrive at an intersection but don't make any turns and continue heading straight. Along the way you should notice a traffic light at the end. Once you arrive close to the traffic light you should notice some black trash bags on your left. To the right of the trash bag is a brown box with foreign asian characters. The touchdown is sitting on top of the brown box. You're going to want to go with the flow of traffic towards the bridge. And take a right at that intersection. Then take another right at the next intersection. You should see an old blue car on the left and a newer beige one on the right. Go all the way up to the cross walk by the intersection. Look right. There is a grey fire hydrant. The top is your touchdown.  Go with the flow of traffic.  There will be scaffolding on both sides of the street.  Go to the first intersection and turn left.  There will be lots of flags and neon to your right.  Go to the next intersection and turn left again.  You'll see some construction mesh on your left right away.  Stop immediately after passing this mesh.  You'll have green plywood on both sides of you now.  Turn to look at the plywood to your left.  You should now see an orange barrier.  To the left of that is a cat stenciled on the plywood.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the cat.   Position yourself so the blue bicycles for rent are on your right. Turn right at the first intersection. Travel straight through three intersections with traffic lights. Shortly after the third intersection, you'll see a red and yellow symbol hanging vertically near the third story of a building on your right. The shape somewhat resembles a cross. Touchdown will be in the yellow center of the symbol.   Turn so you are facing away from the closest intersection and have a parking lot on your right. Move forward to the next intersection and turn right. Walk down this block to the next intersection and turn right. Go down one more block. At the final intersection, turn right. Turn so you are facing the direction of traffic. On your right is a red square post just next to the curb. Touchdown is at the base of the post. Face in the direction of traffic, so that the newspaper stand is on your right. Walk down the street until you get to the intersection. There will be a store with a sign with two big green squares and two smaller green squares on your front-left. Make a left here. Go all the way down this street until you get to an intersection. There will be a grassy fenced off area in the front-right corner of the intersection. Make a left here. Stop at the next intersection, and make a left. You will be able to see a row of blue bikes for rent on the left. Stop just at the beginning of this row. Touchdown is sitting on the seat of the second bike.  Tun so the green construction is on your right.  Follow the flow of traffic to the intersection ahead and turn left.  You'll now have red banners on your left and construction on your right.  Follow this road an stop when you are just about through the intersection ahead.  Look to the store on the left with all the treest in front of it.  There is a circular sign hanging out from the wall that is green and yellow.  Touchdown is in the middle of that sign. With the stairs to a white building on your left, move to the first intersection and turn left. Now, that white building will be on your left for your entire  journey down this street. When the building ends at the corner, turn left. 

There will be a fenced in construction area on your left. Look for the bright red door that looks really out of place. Above the door is a red round light. Touchdown is perched on top of that red light.  Align yourself with the flow of traffic, and head down to the intersection. Make a right, and continue down, ignoring the first intersection, to make another right at the next intersection. You may have to make a few weird steps to go right.

Ignore the first intersection on this street, and shortly after, look on the right for a white sign on the scaffolding, above a no parking sign, covered slightly by a tree. Touchdown is in the middle of this sign. Turn and walk in the same direction as traffic. Turn left at the first intersection. This is a narrow one way street. Walk past a blue storefront on your right with a cartoon character sitting in a bubble on the sign.  Go left at the next intersection. There is a brick building with yellow, red, blue, and black fence posts to your right.   Go straight through the next intersection, going underneath a bridge. Immediately go left at the intersection past the bridge.  Stop before getting to the next intersection. Looking down at the road, you will see a painted person on a bike at your feet. Turn to your right and see a short yellow post near the sidewalk. Touchdown is sitting right on top of it.  From the starting position, look straight down the street. To your immediate right will be some brick buildings, the closest one has metal doors and a blue and white logo on the windows and above the door. Move this direction down the street. You will pass one set of lights. Continue straight until the 2nd set of lights. Stand in the middle of this intersection and look slightly to your right. Beneath a metal pole that holds a streetlight will be a mail collection box and a trashcan in front of some large glass windows partially covered with brown paper. Touchdown is sitting on that trashcan. Orient yourself with traffic and proceed forward. Turn right when able, there is no light or stop sign. Go down this street and turn right at the stop signs. Turn right at the first traffic light.Turn right at the next intersection and stop pretty much on the street corner. Down this street, you should see a bulb-lit hangover on the left. Touchdown is on its nearest corner. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Turn right at the next intersection.  You should see scaffolding ahead on the left.
You will pass a stacked parking lot on your right.
Turn right at the next intersection and you will once again have scaffolding ahead on the left. Make one last right turn at the next intersection and you will see pallets of stuff on the left sidewalk.  Go forward until you are at the red and white sign on a green pole on the left, in front of a small double black door with a red and white sign on it.
Touchdown is on the red and white sign on the green pole. Turn so that the green awning is on your left.  Walk down this street to the intersection.  1 step before being in the intersection, turn and look for a blue bag sitting on the ground.  The bear is on that bag. You're on a major roadway - turn so that you're looking at two bridges ahead, one close and one in the distance. Walk under the nearest bridge and just past the baseball field off the right side of the road. 

Just past the baseball field is sa long narrow building with a purple sign on the end closest to you. Start walking past this, though you're not going to completely clear it. Just past the green road sign, stop. At just about your eye hight is a series of blue, red, and yellow dots on the windows of the building. Touchdown is on the dot closest to you. Turn so you can move with the flow of traffic and turn right at the intersection only a short distance away.  You'll now have green construction on you left.   Proceed down this road, passing through the first intersection and turn right when you get to the next one.  You'll now have red signs on your left.  Stop when you just enter this street and look to those two stores with red signs on your left.  There is a single orange construction one to the left of two boxes in front of the store with the brighter sign.  Touchdown is sitting on top of that orange cone.  Orient yourself so that the building with the orange awning it's on your right in the fenced-in area is on your left. Go straight so that you're moving down the road with the fenced-in area on your left. Continue forward until you reach the next intersection and take a  right. There should be a playground with a colorful fence on your left and a building with a mural on your right. Can you forward until you are just before the three-way intersection. Turn slightly right and you will see a black fire hydrant between two red bollards. Touchdown is sitting on the top of the bollard nearest you. Head in the direction of traffic and turn left at the intersection. Go straight through the next intersection. Go straight through the next intersection as well. Stop just past the large hotel on your left and before you reach the American flags. On your left there are three different trash cans. Touchdown is on top of the blue one. Position yourself so you are facing the intersection. You'll be lined up with the triangular point of a median up ahead. Step into the intersection, and turn right. After you turn, a yellow awning is ahead on your left and a building with small black and purple awnings is on your right. 

Go to the next traffic light and turn right. This will place a pink storefront and door ahead on the right. Go a little farther, and turn right again at the next intersection. Now, you'll have green fencing, traffic cones, and an orange crane on your right. Pass these and then pass a dumpster with a blue tarp on the left. Just after this is a green port-a-potty surrounded by orange fencing on your left. Touchdown is on top of the port-a-potty.  Go with the flow of traffic to the first intersection and take a right turn. There will be phone booths on both sides of the street. Go to the next intersection and take a right turn. There's a parked ice cream truck on your left.  There will be some blue scaffolding on your right ahead.  Just after that you will see a red door.  Touchdown is on the small red sign on that door. On your left should be a building with a yellow wheel that is on the corner of the window (like a sticker or decal.) On the right is a building that has round white lights showing through the windows.
Go through the first intersection and when you reach the second intersection make a left.
head straight and you will see a building on your right with a awning that is crooked and looks like it is leaning it is red with white letters.
Tiouchdown is sitting directly in the middle over the letter A in the middle set of words. Position yourself with the flow of traffic. 
Go forward. You'll see some petal poles and a large set of stairs before the first intersection. Cross over this intersection.
Proceed onward and make a right at the next street.
Glass buildings will be directly ahead of you before you turn.
After you've made the right, go up the block a ways until you see a silver door with a red square on it. This will be on your right hand side.
Touchdown is in the middle of the red square.


 Stand so that the courts are on your right, and move forward past the 3-way intersection on your left. Then at the next intersection, you need to continue straight (which really is a slight right). You'll be keeping the grassy area on your left.  Pass straight through the next intersection. At the following intersection, meander back and then forward so that you continue along the same path, but on the left side of the street, against traffic. There should be an orange and red newspaper box on your left. You'll be continuing in between similar buildings on both sides of you, with brick walls and short hedges. Before you get to the next intersection, stop. In the median on your right is a striped yellow and black sign. Touchdown is on top of that sign. Turn so that the bikes are behind you. Step out into the intersection and turn right.Then take the next right. Follow this road for a while.     Pass the dumpster on your right.  There is a building with an orange overhang.  Stop in front of it.  Turn and look across the street.  There are 4 trashcans side by side.  The bear is on top of the left one. Start by heading in the direction of traffic.  You should see some orange construction barriers in the road a little way ahead on the left.  At the first intersection, turn right.  Move to the next intersection and again turn right.  This road is lined with a lot of trees.  A little way again on the left the sidewalk is partially covered with scaffolding.  Move ahead and at the next intersection turn right.  Just after making the turn, look to your left: there will be an orange sign next to the road with a picture of a gavel.  Touchdown is at the top of the gavel. Follow the direction of traffic. Till you reach the intersection. Turn right at the intersection. Go with traffic. You will see a 3-way intersection first, do not turn, go straight and pass this intersection. When you reach the next 3 way intersection where you can only turn right, and on the right side there are two big trees in front of a red brick building. Turn right at this intersection. Now you are on a one-way street and follow the direction of traffic, stop at the next intersection . turn right at this intersection. Once you turned, look at your left. There is a traffic light pole IN THE MEDIAN OF THE ROAD  with red palm light on, the touchdown is in the palm of that light. You may need to move a little bit so that the light is right next to you on your left.  Orient yourself so that the billboard with the red polka dots is on the left.  This is the street you will need to go down.  Go all the way down this street (it's long); turn right when you come to the intersection.  There will be a store with a red sign with big white letters to your right.  Go to the next intersection and turn right again. Stop right after you leave the intersection, right after you cross the crosswalk.  There's a maroon store to your right.  Turn to face it.  On the corner of the store's awning are some numbers.  Touchdown is on top of these numbers.   Go with the flow of the traffic. Immediatly take a right. follow the Ryder truck to the intersection. Take a right. Follow grey car to the next intersection, take a right. Follow the PS truck down the road. Take a right at the intersection. Follow until you see bike chained up on left. Middle of bike is touchdown.  Follow the flow of traffic so that there is a delivery truck unloading on your right. Turn right at the first intersection. Go forward and turn right at the next intersection.  You will pass some buses on your left. Stop when you reach that intersection. There is a bike parked across the street to your left. The touchdown is the right side (arrowhead) of the one way sign near the bike.  Turn so the red wall is on your right and follow traffic to the intersection ahead. Turn right, you'll now have a red awning on your right.  Follow this road to the next intersection and turn right. There will be a green painted wall on your left here.  Follow traffic down this one way road and stop when you see a large white scull and bones on your left before you get to the next intersection.  Touchdown is right below the scull, on the spot where the two bones cross. Position yourself so you see a yellow taxi is turning in front if you and there is another yellow taxi ahead. Now go on that street as if you are catching up with the first taxi. Once you make a move the taxis will be gone , but make sure that you see the store with blue/silver sign to your left and a store with red letters to your right. Go straight. you have to get to the next intersection. however it will be little bit tricky, you will see at one point there is no way to go straight, only go back or go right, click to go right.
Now you are on a different street, don't worry, you will see two arrows and one is pointing to the left and one is kinda "left and forward", click the one "left and forward", continue the same direction, then later you will see two arrows , one is point to the right and one is point to the back where you came from. Click the one point to the right. 
Yay! you are back on the same street. Now go forward. 
When you reach the intersection, you will see some bikes to your left. Turn right at this intersection.
You will see scaffolding to your right now. Go straight now. When you just passed the scaffolding section. Look to your right, there is a store at the corner of the street with black exterior, and there is a red logo ( the bigger one) on there. The logo is a letter and a round shape. The touchdown is in the middle of that sign.  From your starting point, please turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  There should be a parking lot on your left, behind a fence, and directly to your right should be a bright yellow sign with black stick figures.  Walk down this narrow street until you come to an intersection.  

Stop and turn left at this intersection.  You should be looking down a wide, one-way street, in the same direction as traffic.  On your left will be a shop with a red awning.  On your right will be a yellow newspaper box.  Walk down this wide road until you come to another intersection.  

Stop and turn left at this intersection.  You should now be walking down a two-way road with a green construction fence and then a bus stop on your right.  Walk down this road, and look for a yellow newspaper box on your right, and then an American flag hanging from the wall above a blue and white sign.  

Walk forward until you are standing as close as you can get to this flag.  If you look directly to your right, you should be standing right in front of two sets of double doors, below a blue, white, and red sign with an Eagle-head logo.  

Touchdown is sitting on top of the middle of the top edge of this sign.  
 align yourself so the building with the green hedges and flowers all planted in front is to your right. Continue forward, you will come to a bridge over your lane, just after you pass the bridge, on your right you will see a walking path, there is a lamp post, the bear is on top of the light Orient yourself with the round building ahead of you to your right. Take a left at the first intersection. Go straight until there is a cone to your left. Touchdown is on top of the cone. You should be standing just past the intersection on a one way road. Orient yourself so you're facing the same direction as traffic. Go forward through three intersections, keeping on the same road. At the fourth intersection, you'll see a drugstore with red cursive lettering for a sign on the right. Turn left away from the store. Just a few steps in from the intersection there will be a signpost on the right . It will have a red sign on top, a white sign in the middle, and a blue sign on the bottom. At the base there will be a bike locked to it. Touchdown is at the base of the signpost next to the front wheel. Turn so your moving with the flow of traffic, facing an intersection. Go straight through the intersection, moving up the one way street. You will follow this road for a fairly long ways and the road will dead end. Take a left here. There should be an orange brick building on your left. When you get passed it, stop in front of the light post and look left. In a bit from the street you should see a short concrete pole with a light on top of it in front of a guard booth. 

Touchdown is on top of this short concrete post, sitting on top of the light.  Follow the direction of traffic. Head to the intersection, then take a right. When you reach the next intersection, take another right. Stop just before you reach the green barriers on your left and the blue awning on the right. There is a diamond shape facing you on the first green barrier. Touchdown is in the center of the diamond. Go with traffic to the first intersection that isn't far away. Make a left turn. You will be going the same direction as traffic again. There are a couple bikes together on the left side.Go down this long block almost to the end. You will pass a building on the left that has a lot of yellow on it. Stop when you can see the intersection but aren't quite to it yet. On the left sidewalk is a pile of black trash bags. Touchdown is on that pile of trash bags right in the middle.  Follow the street, with the glass building on your right and the building with the yellow with red trim overhang on your left. When you reach the next intersection, go left. You will see a green pedestrian bridge across the street in the distance. Walk towards it until you see a white capped green fire hydrant between two grey poles on your left. The touchdown is in front of the hydrant, next to the left pole. With the four red awnings and the median with planters with bushes and trees to your right, go against traffic, and through the first light you come to. Go right at the next, making an immediate u-turn, so you're now walking with the planters in the median to your right, still against traffic.

Stop before entering the crosswalk at the light. Rotate left. Touchdown is atop the sphere light with the green top attached to the grey concrete blocks of the building with green awnings. Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Head to the nearest intersection.  Turn left, then take the next left.  Take this road for a while.  Pass one right.  Pass the rental bikes on your left, then look back at them.  The bear is on the seat of the last one. Turn so the dumpster is on your right and the closed silver security gates are on your left.  Move forward and go straight through the first intersection you come to.  There will now be a large bridge over the road in front of you.  Pass straight through the four way intersection right before the bridge, then go under the bridge.  After the bridge you'll go straight through a double intersection (two chances to turn, but don't take either and just go straight).  Now you have a playground on your left side.  Continue forward, and you'll see a second playground area right past the first.  This second playground has a row of three benches along the chain link fence (inside the fence, not on the sidewalk).  Stop when you're even with the third bench, which has rainbow striped boards.  Just beyond the rainbow bench is a red slide.  The bear is sitting at the bottom of the slide (on the slide, not the ground). Go WITH traffic and RIGHT at the light.  Go almost to the end of the block. STOP just after the red door of the last building on the block on the right. ROTATE RIGHT. 

FIND Touchdown atop the white cap of the black hydrant directly in front of you. You're going to start right behind an intersection. You see two buses to the left. Instantly take the right. Go down this road. You will see the first intersection. Keep going. You will come to the next intersection. There are mail trucks on the left. Take that right. You will see graffitti on the left and tons of white trucks ahead. Go up until you see the white track with two guys behind it. There is trash and wood on the right. The touchdown is the middle of the bush just slightly to the right of the garbage and wood.  Go with the flow of traffic with the scaffolding on your right. Go straight through the first light.  At the next light, turn right.  There's scaffolding on your left.  In front of the red building on the right is a bike chained to a green pole.  Touchdown is in the center of the front wheel. Orient yourself with traffic so the construction is on your right. Go straight through two intersections and turn right at the third down the one way street. A food cart is on your left and a bank on the right with a parking sign up ahead on the right. At the next intersection, turn right. There's a pub on your right and a travel store to the left of the pub. Touchdown is on the address numbers on the glass between the doors at the entrance to the travel store.  Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Go forward; you will pass through a 3-way intersection and a 3-way place where you have the option to veer back. Go forward until the 4-way intersection, and turn right. Then move to the next intersection and turn right again. To the left of the construction area is an orange diamond sign. Touchdown is on that sign. Head straight, going with the flow of traffic, and make your first right. You will see a giant billboard along the face of the building to your left. Go straight and make your first right again. This will be a narrower road. Follow it into the first intersection, and make a right. Immediately after turning, look to your right. There is an orange newspaper stand next to a green street lamp on the corner. Touchdown is on top of the orange stand. Follow traffic to the light and go right. Go right again at the next light, and right again at the next one, too.  You'll have a white building with a red brick stripe and blue awnings on the left and k-walls in front of green walls to the right.

Go almost to the intersection, but stop when you're even with the blue shark drinking a glass of lemonade on your left.  Touchdown is in the center of the shark's mouth. Going with the flow of traffic, go to the first intersection and turn left.  At the next intersection turn left.  There will be a green awning on your left.  Touchdown is in the center of the middle number. Turn so you are facing the way traffic is driving.  Follow this block until you reach the first intersection.  Turn right, the building with red letters behind glass should be on your right now.  Travel to the next intersection and Stop when you are in the middle.  Look to your right and up a little.  There is a large light green flag with a circle in the middle in front of a brown brick building.  Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the circle in the middle of the flag. Going with the flow of traffic, you will have an iron fence on your right.  When you get to the light, turn right.  Follow this street until you see a bunch of trash on your right.  (there won't be a car parked there- the trash is in the street next to the curb) There's a corner section of a sectional couch. Touchdown is on this part of the couch. Walk with the flow of cars.  Go to the intersection.  Turn left.  Walk to the next intersection.  Turn left.  Walk forward until you pass the green dumpster on your left. Stop when you are at the brown dumpster.  The bear is in the middle of the "O" on the dumpster side. Orient yourself so that the hot dog cart is on your left side. Enter the intersection and then turn left. The hot dog cart will again be on your left side. There should be a large green window on your right. Continue with traffic. When you come to the next intersection, turn left again. You should see trees with lights on your right side and more on your left. Go after the red bus. Go past the street artist on your left and the hat booth on your right. On your left you will see a store with large red letters on your left side. Face this store. Touchdown is at the top right corner of the window to the left of the door. Turn so your moving with the flow of traffic. Move up the block and take a right at the first intersection. Go a short ways, and you will come to another intersection. Again, take a right. You should see trees on both sides of the road ahead. Watch the left side of the road as you go. You will pass three trees and then see a building with a big cross on the outside of it above the door. Stop in front of the door. 

Look ahead slightly. There is a signpost with a red and white sign on it just ahead on the same side of the street as the building you stopped in front of. Touchdown is on top of the sign Going with the flow of traffic, go to the first intersection and turn right.  You'll turn right at the next intersection as well. You'll have scaffolding on your right. Go straight to the next intersection and turn right.  After the first dumpster on your right there will be a traffic cone. Touchdown is at the base of the traffic cone. Position yourself so the blue wall with fencing in front of it is on your right and there's a traffic light just a few steps ahead of you. When you get to that intersection ahead, turn left. There will now be scaffolding on your left and a fenced in area on your right. 

When you get to the next traffic light, walk straight through and stop at the crosswalk. Look to your right, and you'll see two orange and white construction barrels under a small red square sign with white writing. Touchdown is on that little red sign.  Begin moving with the flow of traffic, so the green dumpster with the blue tarp is on your right. When you get to the first intersection, turn right. After you turn, there will be a brick building with a red fire escape up ahead on your right. Pass that building and turn right at the light.

Continue straight, and you'll have scaffolding on your left off and on. At one point, the scaffolding will temporarily end and you'll see a bright orange car parked on your right. To the right of that car is a silver scooter parked next to arched windows of a tan building. Touchdown is sitting on the seat of that scooter.  Go with the flow of traffic with a school building on your right. Take a left at the first intersection. Move down the road a ways until you see a green fenced off area coming up on the right. Touchdown is next to a silver lightpost just before you reach it. Go with traffic flow to the next corner and turn left. 

Go to the next corner and turn left again.

Go through the next corner, which is a 3-way. There are yellow awnings on your right and a park to your left. Just past the yellow awning on your right is a gray door with a small square window. Touchdown is in that window on the door.  Go with traffic down the one way street. Turn left at the first intersection. Turn left again at the next intersection. A parking lot will be on the left corner. Look left. Toward the end of the street there is green scaffolding.  Stop when your next to the red and gray fire hydrant. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant.  Go down the road facing traffic. Keep moving forward, past the elevated sidewalk on the right. There will be road barriers on the left right before the road curves to the left. Touchdown is on top of one of those barriers. Orient yourself in the direction of the parked cars. At the intersection with a yellow newspaper stand to the right, take a left. Go straight until reaching the next intersection. Touchdown is on the rightmost construction cylinder to the left. Face the same direction as the cars, with the green bushes surrounded by benches on your left and make a left at the intersection, with the two green statues on your left. Follow the traffic and make your last left, with another green statue on your left. Pass this statue and make your way down the block, stopping after you pass the blue gates on your left. Touchdown will be on your left, on the center of the red octagon sign. Face the flow of traffic.  This should put fencing and green doors on your right.

Go forward until you can turn left at the dead end.  Go forward to the next intersection, passing red and blue awnings.

Turn right at this intersection and you should see a tanker truck on the left and a green awning on the right.  Go forward for a bit, and turn right at the intersection ahead. Stop immediately after going right.  You'll be standing right next to a crosswalk sign on your left and trashcan on the right.

Touchdown is in the trash can.

 Go down the street in the direction of traffic. You'll first cross through a crosswalk with a man in a hard hat running through it. 
Follow this street until the first intersection and turn left behind the white truck with the red and blue stripes and blue logo.
Follow that truck until you see traffic lights up ahead and a tree on your left. Touchdown is sitting on the manhole cover in front of the tree and behind the truck. Face the direction the cars are moving and walk down the street.  Continue straight, which involves one weird sideways click, until you're in the first proper 3-way intersection.  Turn left.  There should be a red sign with blue lettering on your left and an orange and brown awning on your right.  Go down this street to the first proper 4 way intersection.  Turn left, following the flow of traffic.  Stop at the next intersection.  Turn to your left, you should see a playground that has 3 green tented tops.  Touchdown is on the top of the middle tent. Enter the intersection with all the crossed white lines and turn right.  The building with the rounded window tops should be on your right.  Travel down that road until you reach the next intersection and turn right.  There should now be a building under black construction fabric on your left.  Follow that road traveling through the first intersection.  At the next intersection, turn right down the now one way road.  Watching the right side of that road, travel a short way until you see a set of short black stairs with rails.  Proceed to the next section of black stairs with handrails.  In between the rails is an open door with an orange construction cone.  Touchdown is sitting on the very top of the orange construction cone. Line yourself up so you are facing the same direction as traffic ,, there is a parking lot to the left, proceed forward straight through the intersection just ahead.
You will pass some mostly empty bike racks to your left and proceed straight though the next traffic light.
As you approach the third traffic light you will see see a building to the right with many dark windows with a blue and white billboard on it.
Turn right at this intersection into oncoming traffic.
After turning move slightly ahead and to your left see two red and white umbrellas, Touchdown is on top of the umbrella to the right, closest to the subway entrance. Find the white building with signage of green with white lettering and have this to your right also ahead and to the right is a orange awning and behind that a Large white and black awning that juts out over the sidewalk. Ahead and to the left is a tan building with three flags hanging from the third story.
Proceed straight ahead on this street
After leaving the three flags to your left to the right you will see a light colored building with multiple orange signs to the right continue to the intersection, on the corner to the right is a black building with large windows and a burgundy  sign.
Turn right at this intersection.
You will want to make another right at the traffic light just ahead, the nav arrows get a bit goofy here so it may take a couple tries
Now that you have made the right turn onto this narrow one way street proceed to the end of the block, passing green scaffolding to the left and right.
After the scaffolding on the right ends, see the street light post with a planter hanging from it to the right. Travel slightly past that light post turn around slightly to the right and Touchdown is sitting atop the hanging planter.
 Going with the flow of traffic, enter into the intersection and turn left.  You'll have a yellow and blue playground to your right.   Turn left at the first chance you get.  You'll have piles of trash bags on both sides of the road.  Go straight until this road dead ends into another street, turn left.  Go down to the next light and turn left and stop.  Touchdown is on top of the trashcan to your right. Turn so you'll be walking in the same direction the cars are going.  Walk to the first intersection and turn left. Go one short block to the next intersection and turn left.  You'll come to a parking lot behind a chain link fence on your right.  Go past the first entrance (open chain link fence gate), and to the second entrance, which has yellow poles on either side of it.  Look for the bike parked alongside the staircase just to the left of the parking lot entrance.  The bear is sitting on the bike seat. Turn and walk in the same direction as traffic. You will pass some blue bike parking on your right. Go left at the first intersection. Go left again at the next intersection you come to. This will be a one way street and you are travelling with traffic. You will come to an ornate iron fence along a light colored building on your left. It has round white globe lamps at each gate opening. Walk till you come to the other end of it and stop to face the last door behind that fence. You will find Touchdown sitting on the globe lamp that is furthest right.  Follow the flow of traffic and turn right at the first intersection. Continue until the next intersection and then turn right again. You will see a gated park on your left as you continue. Keep going straight and then you will see a yellow street sign on the left. There will be a diamond with a smaller square under it. The touchdown is on the square sign. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, with the cop car on your left. Make the first right, and then the first right again. Go straight down this street and ignore the intersection. Stop when you have the weirdly shaped red car in front of you, and the coffee shop in front of it. Touchdown is on the A in the in the coffee shop window. Turn so you are going with traffic. Go straight down the street and take a right at the intersection. At the next light take another right.  Go down this steet. You will pass a blue truck with white letters parked on the left side of the road. Go a but further. Stop when just get to the other side of the store on the left with furniture outside. There is a door to the right of this store with a light above it. It also has a black door frame. Touchdown is in the middle of the red circle you see on the white square on the door.  Orient yourself and move into the intersection right next to you, then turn left.
If you're facing the right direction, you will see blue flags on the building on the left and should see scaffolding on your right.
Turn left at the next intersection and you will see a red painted lane on your right.
Head down the road, passing a red awning jutting out.
At the next intersection, turn left.  You will see a large red banner on the left when you do.
Move past that and you should come up to a bench on your right in front of a store with black awnings.  Touchdown is sitting on the middle of the bench.
 From your starting point, turn so that you are facing the same direction as all the cars on your street.  You should see a yellow taxi right in front of you.  Walk forward until you are in the middle of the intersection.  You will have gone far enough when you see a young woman in a red sweater with a backpack in front of you, on the left.  From here, turn to your left and start walking down the street, towards a yellow taxi and a white pickup.  It will be a long, straight walk.   When you reach the end of a construction area, you should see a wooden fence on the right side.  Just walk past both sections of this fence, but stop when you are right on top of a crosswalk.  There should be a white sign with black lettering, on a black pole, right in front of you.  Touchdown the Bear is just to the right of this sign.  Take another step forward if you see the sign, but not the bear. Position yourself so the construction area is just behind you on your right and there are five trash bins ahead on your left (2 blue and 3 gray). At the first intersection, turn right. After you turn, there will be a Statue of Liberty holding a paint roller painted in a mural on a building to your right. 

Go to the next intersection, which is just a short distance ahead of you, and turn right again. Now, there is an orange and white construction barrier traveling alongside the sidewalk on your right and there's a bus stop on your left. 

Right after the construction work ends on your right, there is a narrow bright blue awning above a business on your right. Touchdown is placed right in the center of that small blue awning.  Turn so the gate of the black fence is to your left. Head forward till the next intersection. Make a left turn and go under the overpass. At the next intersection is a fenced enclosure. Turn left so the enclosure is on your right side. Continue forward to the next intersection. Make another left and position yourself so that the green fence is on your right. Move to the next intersection. There will be an orange sewer grate on the right side of the road which has painted red arrows pointing at it. Touchdown is on the sewer grate.  Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street.  Go forward to the first intersection you come to, and turn right.  Go one short block to the next intersection, and turn right again.  Now you're on a very long block, so you have a ways to go.  On your right side you'll pass a store with a chalkboard sign out front on the sidewalk, a bright orange awning, a bright orange flag hanging from a building, and two dark green mailboxes next to each other.  After the mailboxes, look for the yellow and white construction barriers on the right.  Move ahead until you're even with the first couple of construction barrier pieces (there will be a driveway gap in the barrier just ahead of you).  Look down at the construction barrier near you.  There is a black trash bag on the ground right next to the barrier (on your side of the barrier).  The bear is on the trash bag. Turn so that a sign with a white/blue tooth is to your right. Go right at the next intersection. There will be a glass building with red letters to your left, and a grey building to your right. Go straight. Go straight through the next intersection. The building on your right will have 3 red rectangular flags hanging on the second story. Just before getting to the next intersection, stop so that when facing the building on your right, you are just right of the double wooden doors. Touchdown is sitting on the very top of the light just above those doors.  turn yourself so that you ate facing the same direction as traffic.move forward to the intersection and turn left.
There are now red awnings to either side. 
move forward to the intersection shortly ahead an tun left once again onto this one way street 
There are green white and orange flags ahead to the right, travel down this street passing the parking garage to the right.

After you pas  the parking garage, see the green scaffolding also on the right side, and stop when you are even with the far end of the scaffolds look directly to your left and see a black awning with a circular symbol in the middle of it. Touchdown is in the circle.

 Orient yourself so theres a concrete building on your right, a blue building on your left, and a grey jeep in front of you. Keep going straight until you get to the second stop light. directly after it you will find the touchdown on a purple sign on the right (on a building) Turn so the scaffolding is on your left.  Go down this road, straight through the first intersection. Turn left at the next one.


Go down to the next intersection and go just through it and stop. 
Turn to your right and see an orange light on top of a cement barrier. Touchdown is on top of that light. Follow the flow of traffic on the busy street. When you reach the first intersection, with the large pink and red sign ahead to your right, take a left. 

Now move against traffic, passing a parking lot on your right, until you reach the next intersection. In the center of it, before turning one of 4 ways, stop. Ahead of you on the left is a black fire hydrant with a silver top. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant. Turn and go in the direction with the traffic.  On the right you will see a large red awning. Turn right at intersection. Scaffolding is on the left. Bike parking to the right. Turn right at intersection. Scaffolding is on the left. You will see a Red awning to the right. There is a black board with menu on it to the right of the chairs on the sidewalk. Touchdown is sitting on top. Follow traffic to the second light and go right. [Don't be dismayed when the scenery shifts and glitches; it's just uncertain reality and nothing to be concerned about.]

Stop just before the crosswalk at the next light without going past it.  Rotate right. You should be facing a corner shop with a black sign band and white dimensional letters.

Touchdown is between the pincers of the red and pink lobster at the left of that sign. Begin by moving in the same direction as the cars. When you get to the second intersection, make a right turn. Shortly after making this right turn, you will see a row of white lane dividers in the road. You need to get on the left side of those dividers. As soon as you do, stop. Look at the left lane. There is a white arrow painted on the road near the intersection. Touchdown is sitting right on top of the arrow. Follow the flow of traffic and turn right at the first intersection. Go forward and turn right again at the next intersection. Keeping going straight pass the parking area and turn right at the intersection. Keep going until you see a gate on your left with a stop sign and a traffic cone. The touchdown is in the middle of the stop sign.  Hello. Please orient yourself with the flow of traffic in the same direction as the parked vehicles. There will be a white stone building with red brick columns to your right side. You will be facing an intersection. 

Walk forward into the three-way intersection. Go straight here.
Walk forward to the next four-way intersection. Go straight again.

There will be a median with lots of plants and trees to your left side. To your right side, you will see green scaffolding with blue and green signs above it.

Walk forward to the next three-way intersection. You will have to shift to the left slightly in order to fully turn left. You will still be in the middle of the intersection at this point. Please reorient yourself so you are facing the same direction as the turn you made.

You will see a blue building with copper accents to your left side. To your right side, you will see a gray stone building with black accents and lots of thin windows. 

Walk forward again into the four-way side of this intersection. You will want to go straight through into the road with the blue building on your left and the gray building on your right.

Essentially, you will now complete the full left turn you intended to take but it required some extra steps in order to complete it.

Walk forward, passing by a bright blue building on your left side. There will be some red and white construction barriers as well as orange cones on your right side. 

As you approach the next intersection, you will notice some blue bicycles to your left side. Please slow down as you approach them. Walk forward into the center of this four-way intersection. Please stop here in the middle. To your left, you will see a black fire hydrant with white graffiti on it. 

Touchdown will be on the light top of this black fire hydrant to your left. Good luck! Orient yourself so that the tall, green brick walls are to your right.  Head down this long street to the intersection and turn left.  There will be tall, brick apartment buildings on your right.  Go to the next intersection and turn left again.  There will now be green scaffolding on your right.  Stop immediately after you exit the intersection.  In view on your left side should be a sign with a red square in the top left corner.  There is a plus sign in the square.  Touchdown is sitting in front of this square. turn so the medium is on your left and you are going with traffic. At the intersection keep taking lefts until you have a large red brick apartment building to your right, and a store to your left. At the next intersection you will take a left, it's your only turn option. There is a grocery store on your right. You will pass an iron fence with trees and a lawn on your left, on your right is a bright red and black painted store front, just passed that there is a teal and red colored building, there is a red frame on the wall, the bear is in the middle of the frame Hello, please orient yourself following the flow of traffic. There will be large red buses on your left and tiny police cars on your right. Go Straight down this road about 22 steps forward. You will pass two intersections along the way. This will bring you to a third intersection. Turn Left. Continue Straight down this road for 14 steps forward. You will be at an intersection. Go Straight through for 4 steps forward. Look to your far right. You will see a bright orange newspaper stand. You cannot miss it. Very bright orange. You will find Touchdown Bear by clicking at the top of this orange newspaper stand. Good luck! Orient yourself with traffic and proceed. Turn right at the light, then right at the next light too. Stop at the end of a rectangle of grass in the median. Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant on the left side of the street. Turn so you are facing the intersection closest to you /
Go straight through the intersection, through the barricades and stop when you are just past them and look to your right and see the black fire hydrant with grey top.

Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Move forward and you will have a 3-way opportunity to turn; continue straight. Move ahead to that close 4-way intersection and turn right. Move straight, passing through a 4-way intersection. Immediately you'll have an option to veer right; do so, and continue. Again you will have a 3-way option to turn right; do so. Continue as the road curves right. Continue through one stoplight intersection (though there is no option to turn). When you are almost at the next intersection, to your left in the median are 4 black bell-shaped structures with white tips. Touchdown is on the one farthest into the intersection. Go with the flow of traffic to the first intersection and take a right turn. The building to your left has rotating doors and a bench out front..  Go to the next intersection and take a right turn.  There will be food vendors on your right.  Further down there will be scaffolding on your right.  Keep going.  There will be a red business front on your right with their door propped open.  Touchdown is on top of the blue a-frame sign outside this business. Turn so the intersection is at your back. Go straight with traffic down the street. Go straight at the first light and take a left at the next. You will see a yellow painted business on your right. Go one block and take a left. On the left side of the street are some doors painted mint green. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the circle on the awning above the doors.  Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. Move forward a little bit until you reach an intersection. Take a right.

2. When you reorient yourself, there should be several metal crowd control barriers on the left side of the road. Move forward until you reach another intersection, where you'll take another right.

3. When you reorient yourself, there should be a little shop with a couple of yellow and blue umbrellas to your right and a store with a red sign and a symbol of the sun to your left.

4. Moving down this road, when you pass a construction area on your left, you're getting very close. Stop when you see a couple of green-gray mailboxes to your immediate right and a couple of vans--one light gray and one white--to your immediate left. Touchdown is sitting on the very top of the right mailbox, as close to the front of it as possible.

Good luck! :) Follow traffic and go right when you can. There will be two olive covered mailboxes with white graffiti on your right.  Stop exactly when you are standing atop the crosswalk you come to, well before the intersection with lights.  
Rotate to look left.  There is a small blue mailbox next to two larger olive ones. 

Touchdown is center atop the blue mailbox. Turn yourself so that the red brick building is to your right. Go straight on this road. When you come to the first traffic light, make a left turn. You will be going against traffic. You will see a slight left turn off, take this. As you move forward, there is a bus stop on your right. Continue forward. You will pass a red brick building with black metal fencing on your left. When you come to the intersection, proceed forward. On your left, you will see a gray mailbox. Touchdown is sitting on top of the mailbox.  Go with traffic flow so the scaffolding is on your right. 

Go to the first corner and turn right. Go through this construction zone with the green barrier wall on the right to the next corner. Go through this intersection. There will be large green dumpsters on your left just a bit down. Across from them, on your right, are two large open areas to shipping docks. Between those open doors are two yellow posts. Touchdown is on top of the left yellow post between those open doors. Follow the flow of traffic and go forward. Turn left before the bridge is above you. Then turn left at the next intersection. Go forward and you will see a hotel with shrubs on your left. The touchdown is on the top of the closed umbrella in front of the hotel.  Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the store with the blue awning to your right. Continue forward to the intersection and  go straight and then left So you have made a left turn into the proper lane of traffic. You should see a bus stop to your right and a bank to the left across the median. Continue forward down this road and veer to the left when given the opportunity. Head forward towards the intersection and stop when you have reached the crosswalk. Turn to your left and you should see a traffic light pole directly in front of you touchdown is at the base of the traffic light pole. Turn to go with traffic flow. There will be an intersection close in front of you that you will turn left at. 

Still with traffic flow, go down to the next corner and turn left.

When you turn you are still with traffic flow. There are black awnings on your left on a gray brick building with a darker gray bottom. Go down this road. Go through the first intersection. When you get to the second intersection, go through it enough so you are on the crosswalk. Look to the left. There is a green paper box next to a red paper box. Touchdown is on top of the green paper box. You're going to go down the narrow street, not the big/main street here.  Turn yourself so you've got that big mural of a guy with nunchucks at your back, and you're facing down the narrow street where you'll go in the same direction the parked cars are facing.  Go down that street, and pass through the first intersection with the stop sign. At the second intersection, turn right.  Go until you're nearly in the next intersection (right before you'd be standing on the crosswalk).  There's a green motorcycle parked on your right.  The bar is sitting on the seat. Turn around and go with the flow of traffic.Turn right at the first traffic light and go to the next light and turn right again. Just as you near the traffic light of the next street you will see a parking garage on your left Above the parking garage door you will see two arrow and Touchdown is sitting on the green arrow Position yourself so you are going with the flow of the traffic. Go to the intersection and take a right. You should see newspaper bings in different colors on the sidewalk and a lit sign to the right. Follow this street until you get to the next intersection. You'll take a right here. You'll see a coffee shop. Go to the next intersection and take a right. You will see a market on the right and different buildings to the left with signs. Follow this to the intersection. You will see a white van to your left. To your right you should see a garbage can and garbage on the ground. Your touchdown is the middle of the big bag.  Position yourself so the bicycle is on your right hand side.
Go down the street, you'll see more bikes on the right side.
Keep going down the street until you see a large row of blue bicycles on your left side.
The touchdown is on the little red sign on the silver pole in the middle on the blue bike row. Step out into the street and turn until the orange restaurants are on your left. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. There should be purple and blue square signs to your right. A small road island should be to your left. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. You should see an American flag and a white flag in the distance to your left. Walk forward and stop right before you get to the parking lot on your right. Face right. You should see a small blue circular sign above you on a green post. Touchdown is in the middle of the sign. Turn so that the little white sign with the star in the red square is to your left. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left. There should be an orange sign to your right. Walk straight through the next intersection to the one after it. You should pass a large white and red electronic billboard on your right. Once at the intersection turn left. You should see a row of silver columns on your left. Walk forward until you reach the parking lot on your right. Walk so that when you are facing the parking lot the first face on the right of the billboard is in line with you. You should see a fire hydrant between two yellow posts to your left in front of you. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant. Follow traffic, with the red brick building with green awnings and flags on your right, and go to the light. Go left. Go to the next light. Go left. Stop at the end of the black building with the rainbow flyers along it on your left, so that you're looking at its final door, and a the space between it and the next shop.  There's a light grey fan with a blue sticker on that divider wall. Touchdown is adhered to the center of the blades of the fan. Turn to move with traffic, scaffolding in on the left and blue awnings to your right, continue to the 1st intersection. Take a left at the intersection, on your right is scaffolding and a building with flags on it. Just past the flags is a sign pole with a white blue and yellow sign with 2 black arrows on it, the bear is on the arrow closes to the building Orient yourself facing down the one-way street and continue with traffic. Pass through the first intersection with the stop sign and turn right at the next intersection. Turn right again at the next intersection down the cobblestone one-way street. There is a college entrance with a purple and white sign on the left. Continue straight through the next intersection. About halfway down the block is a brick wall on the left and two stacked blue trash cans and a gray trash can on the right. Touchdown is on top of the two blue trash cans. Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. There should be a large white semi-trailer truck to your right and a black truck to your left.

2. Move down this street until you reach an intersection, and then take a right. When you reorient yourself, there should be a tan building with blue flags and an awning to your left.

3. Take another right at the very next intersection. When you reorient yourself, there should be a store with several red awnings to your right and an ornate stone building with light green signs and flags should be to your left. Your destination is close.

4. Keep an eye on the small orange and white traffic cones to your left. Assuming that you're still looking straight down the street, when you're to the immediate right of the last traffic cone, stop. Directly behind it is a turquoise doorway. If you look to the right of that, you should see a dark fire hydrant between two small posts that's next to a parked white car. Touchdown is sitting on the very top of the hydrant.

Good luck! :) Go with traffic. Turn right at the first intersection Go straight at the next intersection. Turn right at the next intersection. Look left and stop next to the large pile of black trash bags. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant next to the pile of trash bags. Turn so that you are facing down the two way street , to your right will be a store with a blue awning and to your left a small playground. Proceed straight ahead.
Travel one block and make a right turn at the traffic light.
A building with a red wall will now be on your right and two stores with blue awnings to your left.
Proceed down this short block and make a right turn at the next intersection, there should now be a playground to your left and homes to the right.

Travel straight down this block until you reach the next intersection.
Stop at the stop sign, look to your left and see the fire hydrant on the corner. 

Touchdown will be sitting atop the fire hydrant.

 Stand facing the direction that the traffic is going with the scaffolding to your right. Go straight and pass the first traffic light. Stop before you reach the overpass that's connected to both buildings. Touchdown is on top of the little building shack to your left. From the starting direction, turn to face the same direction that traffic is moving -- the playground will be on your right. Move a short way down the street past the blue bikes and take a left at the traffic light. Travel down the one way street. Go straight through the first intersection (first traffic light), and continue down the street until you reach another traffic light. At this second traffic light, take a left. Move down the street until you hit another traffic light. Just before the light, and before the cobblestone road on your right, you'll see a dark trash can with a white trash bag on the right sidewalk. Touchdown is sitting on top of the trash can. Turn so you are facing into traffic. The goal is to get to the intersection ahead. Move a bit to the right, then you should see a way forward. Turn left in the intersection. The large red billboard will be behind you.

Move forward until you have an option to turn left. It's a 3 way intersection, so don't miss it. Go against traffic down this road. There's a building shaped like a small airplane hanger on your right.

When you get to the green billboard on your right, across from the buss parking on your left, turn around. Now you will be headed with traffic.

When you come back to the same intersection you just left, turn left.

Go down to the intersection, it's another small 3 way one, and turn left again. Walk a short ways down this street keeping an eye on your right side.

Just past the wall of posters, there is a small building with a beige garage door. Touchdown is in the middle of the smaller door set in the larger one. Follow the flow of traffic down the long block, with the big, white soil pots on your right and make a right at the first intersection. There will now be a blue store sign with white letters on your left. Follow the traffic and reach the first intersection, stopping in the middle of it. In front of you and to the right will be a red store sign with stars on it. Touchdown is on the star near the last letter which is on the side of the store facing the main street. Turn to face with with traffic, park on your left. Go to the other side of that park, then just past the traffic cones. Turn to the right, and a little bit behind you, you will see an abstract statue, and a trash can. Touchdown is on top of the trash can. Follow traffic to the light and go left. Go left again at the next light. Go just past the k-walls to the left when you're almost to the end of the block. Rotate right. You should be facing a black door in a light brown brick building. There's a single silver light above that door. Touchdown is atop it. Turn so the intersection is right in front of you. You will be going with traffic. At this light take a left. Scaffolding on the left side of the street. Go straight down this road to the next light. Take a left and stop on the other side of the crosswalk. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant on the right side of the street.  You're going to start by following the flow of traffic, go down to the intersection and take a right. You should see a yellow overhang with different colored text on the left with construction cones directly in front of you. You will follow this road until you hit the intersection and take a right. You should see a store with a big red sign on the right, and a brick building on your left. Follow this road all the way down. You should pass a bunch of party looking flags on your right. Right before you hit the intersection you should see a garden on the left with a sign on it with a leaf. Your touchdown is the center of that sign.  Turn so the coned off construction is to your left. Head down this street. At the intersection take a right. Go straight one block. Then take a left. You will see a large ivory colored building with lots of columns on your right. Go down this street. At the next intersection take a right. Go a short distance down the street. Stop when you get to the bright green small SUV parked on the right side of the road. Touchdown is sitting on the green SUV right above the upper brake light.  Go with traffic to the light and go left. There'll be white bollards with dual grey stripes on your left as you go to the next light.  Go just past the crosswalk on the other side of the intersection with the next light.  

Turn slightly right, and you'll see a hydrant on the sidewalk in front of the corner shop, that has huge white dimensional letters in the window. There's also four squares before those letters: red, green, blue and orange.  Touchdown is in the center where those squares meet. Turn so you are driving with traffic, There should be a a blue and yellow trailer parked ion the road n front of you. drive straight  forward until the first turn where you will turn right and keep going past the open truck.When you get to the next turn keep going straight but only a  few feet when you see a woman with a red backpack walking under a green awning & in front of a store window with mannequins the touchdown will be on her backpack. Enter the nearest intersection and turn left. Turn left at the first street light. Turn left at the next intersection, barely leaving the intersection. You should see a bus station on the right with a Larry King ad. Touchdown is on Larry King's face. Go with traffic and then left at the light.  Go straight through the next two lights.

To your right is a shiny white reflective building, and to your left round white planters with bushes.  Walk until you're between the seventh and eighth planter on your left, and rotate to the right.  You should be staring at the edge of a street sign, but slightly to your right is a long grey information display on the sidewalk.

Touchdown sits centered atop it.
 Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Move forward to the intersection and there should be red awnings ahead on both sides of the street.  Turn right.
Turn right at the next intersection.  You should see scaffolding ahead on the left.  and two blue awnings on the left in front of it. Go forward and you should pass an orangish dumpster with a blue tarp on the right.
Stop in the next intersection and you should see an orange diamond shaped sign on a green wall ahead on the left.  This sign has a word in black and a arrow pointing right.  Touchdown is on that sign.
 With the bus stand on your right, proceed into the intersection and turn right.  Follow the curve of the road to the right and then keep going straight.  When the road ends at a t-intersection, take a right and stop. There's a bicycle parked on the left side of the street, Touchdown is hiding on the back wheel Turn so you see a yellow box on the sidewalk to your right. Go straight down this street. Go straight through the intersection you will come to. Go straight. At the next light go straight again. There is a blue awning on the left and some unremarkable brick buildings on your right. Go straight. In a block look for a yellow newspaper machine on the left side of the street. It is to left of a silver car. Touchdown is sitting on the top middle of this yellow box.  Face in the direction of traffic, and go take the intersection and go left. Stay on the street through the next intersection into a one way cramped alley with concrete blocks on your left. Keep walking past the one way street to your right, and look at the building on your right with the green/grey metal doors with vents. The first one you see that has two vents instead of one is where the touchdown has been placed exactly in the middle of the two panels. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the trash bags on your right. Continue forward to the next intersection and take a right. You should see some  red scaffolding with a green awning ahead to the left in front of you and a juice shop on your right. Continue forward to the next intersection and take another right. You should see a red bus lane directly in front of you and some construction occurring on the left side of the road. Continue moving forward to the next intersection and go straight then forward a bit, and take a right so you are traveling in the opposite lane of traffic, you do not want to take a right too soon. Once you are facing oncoming traffic continue moving forward until you are standing on the first crosswalk of the next intersection. Stop and turn to your right  and you'll see a light pole next to a planter in the median. Touchdown is sitting at the base of the light pole. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  Hang a right at the intersection ahead.  There will be a yellow overhang ahead on the left.  Head past that and turn right at the 3-way intersection ahead.  Ahead on the right will be a distressed brick building.
Head all the way down to the next intersection and turn right. Move slightly out of the intersection into the crosswalk and you will find Touchdown hiding out in the green trash can on the right. There should be a store with a green sign and white letters on your right. It will be a one lane road with cars parked on the side. Go straight until you see your first sign. There will be a red store on your right. Turn right, now there will be an orange or red mesh fence on your left. Go straight until you get to the next intersection and turn right. There should be a lot of boxes on the sidewalk to your right. Go straight and pass the first intersection where there is a red and yellow store sign. You should see a transportation sign that is blue with white letters. Go slightly to your right and you should see graffiti type letters on the side of a building. Touchdown will be directly in the center of the last letter of the word.  Orient yourself so the nearest intersection is directly behind you, and you are moving the same way as the traffic down the one way road.  Walk all the way down to the next intersection, it's a ways down and you'll pass a lot of tall light-up signs on both sides of the road while you're travelling.  When you get to the intersection, turn left.  Walk to the next intersection, enter it and stop.  Rotate slightly to your left and look at the building on the corner.  In the front windows, there are three posters, one in each window that are red on the top and blue on the bottom and have silver stars on them.  Touchdown is on the sliver start on the red part of the middle poster.   Turn yourself so you are moving with traffic and see some construction scaffolding on your right.  Go down the street until you reach the T crossing and turn right. Some more construction scaffolding will be on your left as you start down this street.  Continue going straight through the next intersection.  You should again see construction scaffolding on your left.  Turn right at next intersection.  You should again see construction scaffolding on your left and column facades on your right.  Continue going straight on this street past a gray fire escape on your right. As you near the intersection, Touchdown will be sitting on a red alarm bell near the sidewalk of the last building on the left. Follow traffic and go right at the end of the block, down the narrow one way street with green fencing on both sides. Go right at the next light, and right again at the light after that, unto a cobblestone street.

Pass the wood framing wrapped in orange hazard fence on your left.  

Face right, and you should be looking directly at a green pole with a white sign with a red circle and glyph on it.  

Touchdown is adhered to the center of that sign. Look down the street with all the Chinese characters and move forward. Keep going until you reach and intersection with a red and white ATM sign. Take a right. Move past more Chinese signs. At the first intersection, Touchdown is beneath a gray horse against a white background. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Turn left at the next intersection.
To your left you'll see a blue awning with wings and red writing if you're on the right path..  Go forward through the intersection ahead.  Stop at the end of the scaffolding your right right that has a green awning with yellow and white lettering right after it.

Ahead on the left is bright red box.  Touchdown is on this red box. Follow the flow of traffic, with the red awning on your left, and make a left. There will now be a silver building with a blue stripe on it. Go down that street, passing the park that will be on your right, make a left and quickly stop. There will be a fire hydrant on your left, between two silver poles, Touchdown will be on the hydrant. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and looking at the intersection right next to you.  Go forward through it.  There will be a lot of blue bikes on your right.  Go forward and turn right at the next intersection.
You should see scaffolding on your right with an orange banner on it.
Go straight through the next intersection and past some more construction materials on the road.
When you get past all the barriers and there is scaffolding on your right, there will be two green mailboxes on your left.  Touchdown is sitting on the first one. Go with traffic.
Turn right at first side street.
Go straight at intersection.
Turn right at next intersection.
Go past the large pile of trash on the left and stop at the back of the school bus.
Look behind the school bus for the manhole cover.
Touchdown is in the center of the manhole cover.
 Orient yourself with the scaffolding to the left. Go straight until you reach an intersection with a red awning to the left, and take a left. Take a left at the next intersection which is a T shape.  Look at the mural to the left. Go up to the door on the mural. Touchdown is on the rightmost flower. Turn so the construction is on your right and you are traveling with traffic.   Follow this long construction wall to the first intersection and turn right.  Follow this road, keeping an eye on the brown brick building with the large billboard on your right.  Pass that building and stop before you reach the glass building.  Look to the right and you will see a small silver building near the entrance that is blocked by metal barriers.  Touchdown is sitting on the round lamp to the right of the little silver guard building.  He is right overtop of the round glass part. From your starting point, please turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars in your lane.  The building with the red sign should be on your right, and some trees should be on your left.  

Walk forward a short distance, and turn right in the intersection.  A green construction awning and scaffolding should be on your left, and another side of the building with the red and white sign should be on your right.  

Walk forward and go straight through that first intersection you come to.  Go a little bit further, and you should see two awnings over storefronts on the left-hand sidewalk.  One awning is blue, the other green.  Before you reach those awnings, you should be able to turn to your right  You will be facing a crosswalk, and a building with orange circles in some of the windows.

Walk forward, over that crosswalk, and just keep going as the road curves.  That building with the orange circles should stay on your left.  Walk just a little bit further, toward a playground on your left.

In a little alley way before you come to the playground, there is a light blue motorized scooter parked next to a wall.  Touchdown the Bear is sitting on top of the cargo box on the back of this scooter Follow the flow of traffic to the first spot you can turn right.  Continue down this road to the next intersection.  Turn right and immediately stop.  Look to the right and there is a picture of 3 Christmas Trees.  The bear is on top of the middle one. Follow the man on the bike with the neon vase on.
Keep following that same street.
At the intersection with crane and cones, turn right.
Keep going in that direction until you see a row of blue bikes and a truck with it's back door open. Touchdown is by the blue bikes and open truck on top of the yellow bike holder with a man with black leather jacket on behind it.
 Turn and face the same direction the traffic is flowing, so there will be bike racks on the right side. Go to the first intersection and turn left. On this road continue towards the next intersection and make another left turn.  There will be a store with a dark blue door at an angle on the right there will also be a phone booth and a silver car parked next to it on the right side of the street when entering it.  Down the street, there is a white building with arches over the doors and a potted bush on each side of the main door. You will find the Touchdown on the potted plant on the left side of the door if looking at it from the street.   Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the brown delivery truck on your right, Continue straight to the next intersection and take a left, You should see scaffolding with green awning to your left and a bus lane to the right, Continue forward to the next intersection and take a left, There should be a green mailbox to the right and scaffolding on the left, Go forward until the entrance to the parking garage is on your right, Turn to your left and there's a grey vehicle and a green mailbox in front of it, click the middle of the green mailbox to find touchdown.
 GO WITH traffic to the light, with the very red painted building to your left. GO LEFT at the light.

STOP when you arrive at the chain-link fence around the parking lot on your left. ROTATE LEFT.  You should see an alley ahead between the building and the metal Quonset hut on the right.

FIND Touchdown centered on the metal grate with white framing on the brick wall to the left of the passage in the parking lot in front of you. Face the orange barrel.  Back up a couple steps, then go towards the right fork and go forward.  Make sure you are on the right side of the fork.  Stop before you enter the crosswalk of the next intersection.  Look right.  The bear is on the orange lighted hand on the streetlight. Stand so you are moving with traffic. Move straight to the intersection and turn right. Go straight until you have an opportunity to turn at an intersection. Don't turn but continue straight for a bit. As the next intersection comes into view, on your right isa store with a bright yellow person painted on the window. Touchdown is on the person. Get oriented so the large cement cylinders are to your left and in front of you it looks like a tunnel under the glass building. Go straight into that tunnel. Keep going straight and go to the right as the road wraps around the glass building. Keep going straight as the building changes to silver metal. You will go over the yellow speed bump. Keep going a short distance until you are about the middle point of the doors that are on the building that is still on your right side. You should be at the part of the sidewalk that has a darker grey patch and the cub is lower and even with the street. Touchdown is in the very middle of that grey patch. Turn around until you are facing with traffic, and then walk to the end of the block, and across the intersection. There will be three trash cans with different colored lids on your left (black, blue, green). Go forward until you're just barely past them, and then Touchdown is on top of the green one. Yes, this one is very short.  Head in the direction of the park black motorcycle if you check your surrounding. Continue forward passing a bicycle parking station on your left till you arrive at an intersection. Make a right turn at this intersect. Follow the road toward the dark red building till you arrive at another intersection. Make a right at this intersection and you should be in an alley way with tons of vehicle park on both the left side and the ride side. Continue forward till you reach another intersection in which you want to make another  right turn. Doesn't it feel like your going in circles?.. Eventually you should see a red and white truck that delivers vegetables on your right I assume. There should be a grey and white awning on your left and below it is a green shrub in between two windows. The touchdown is sitting on top of the shrub. Turn against the flow of traffic.  Turn right at the next intersection.  Pass through one intersection, but stop just before you enter the next.  On the right side of the intersection there is a trash can with a white bag in it, and a bag on the ground.  The bear is on the bag on the ground.   Follow traffic into the intersection and go left. You will have metal construction scaffolding on your right, and will see a vendor cart to your left. Walk just past it, and face left.

You should see in front of you many glass windows.  Between the green pole of a street sign and the taller green metal streetlight pole is a tall vertical square black column with what appears to be white spider-webbed cracked glass.

Touchdown is sitting on the side walk, center against that column. Begin traveling with the flow of traffic so the building with extra-large windows is on your left. At the first intersection, turn left. A green wall will now be on your left and gray fencing for a parking lot on your right. At the next intersection, turn left again. There will still be a green wall on your left for the length of this street. At the next intersection, make a final left turn. Just after you turn, you'll see a business on your right with tables and chairs outside under a canopy. Touchdown is sitting on the table closest to the door. Head in the same direction as traffic.  At the first intersection, turn right.  There will be a low, black building on your left.  Go to the next intersection and turn right again.  There will be scaffolding ahead on your left.  Pass this scaffolding.  You will then see on your right a stone building with columns and arches.  Pass these columns and stop.  Turn to your left.  On a reddish brick house next to the door there is a small red sign.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this sign.   Face the intersection right next to you, step into it and turn right.  You should see a dark covered area ahead, go through it.

At the very end, step into the intersection and turn right.  On your right you'll see a light sign with a hand on it.  Touchdown is on the hand. From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  The scaffolding and the orange ladder should be on your left.  Walk forward down this street and just keep going straight until you come to an intersection.  

Stop in the middle of this intersection and turn to your right.  Move right onto this street so that the store with the red sign and large white lettering will be on your right as you continue moving forward.  

Stop in the middle of the next intersection you come to and turn right.  You should now walk down a narrow lane.  There will be a building with red walls and orange posters in the store windows on your right as you pass.  

Walk down this road, passing an orange awning and then a red awning with yellow letters.  

Walk a bit further and stop next to the front wheels of a large brown truck parked on the left side of the road.  Look to your left, and find a dark gray post on the sidewalk with a small blue sign and blue strip near its top.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this post. Get turned so the white picket fence is on your right side. Go all the way down to the next intersection and make a left turn. Go one short block and make another left turn. Once you are turned there are blue rental bikes on the right side. Go straight to the end of this block. Get almost to the middle of the intersection then stop. On the right in front of the black store with a red awning then a dark awning on the second floor there is a trash can on the corner. Touchdown is on top of the trashcan.  You will start in the middle of an intersection.  Please turn around so that the two little pedestrian islands are on your left and right.  If your facing the right way, you should see a small A-frame chalkboard in front of a sidewalk cafe ahead and on your left.

Start walking down the road, there is a white SUV parked on your left and a red SUV parked on your right.  

The street is curvy, but just stay on it for a while.  Keep going straight past the building on your right whose wall is red on top and blue on the bottom, you're about half way to the intersection.  When you see an open black gate on the right with a small parking lot inside of it, you should see a crosswalk up ahead.  

Walk into the middle of that intersection and stop.  

Turn to your left.  You should see a shop with a blue sign (and white lettering) on your right and a park on your left.

Start walking up the road between that shop and the park.  You will come to another intersection shortly.  Stop walking just before you step into the first crosswalk.  

Turn to your left, and you should see a small red sign with tiny white lettering. 
The bear is sitting right on top of that sign
 Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic, and head to the nearest intersection.  Turn left, then take the next left.  There will be construction pipes on the left.  Pass the pipes, and pass the building with the circle windows.  Barely enter the construction area where there is scaffolding, look left.  There is a ladder with a blue top.  The bear is on top.   Orient yourself so a store with red awning is behind and to your left. Proceed forward out of the intersection. Turn right at the first traffic light. Pass a green crane and the two thick trees that follow it, stopping just before a much smaller third tree tied to a post. Touchdown is at the base of this tree. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and turn right at the intersection ahead.  You will see a blue ahead on your right at the next intersection, where you will again turn right. You should see scaffolding on both sides ahead of you once you make the turn.  Head forward, passing the black netting on a fence to your left.
Turn right at the next intersection and you will have a green awning on your left.  Move forward into the next intersection.  On the pole to your right you find Touchdown hiding on a sign with an arrow pointing to the right. Orient yourself so the blue mailbox is on your right, go forward and turn with the curve. When you reach the first intersection, you will see a planter with a blue sign on your right, make a right there. A white and black building will be on your left and a brown building will be on your right. Continue forward, pass the red fire hydrant and stop when you see the tree surrounded by green plants at the bottom, in front of the gray and glass store front with red letters. Touchdown will be in front of the tree on the green plants. face so you are moving with the flow of traffic and continue through the tunnel the picture will go blurry inside the tunnel continue to the first intersection and turn right at the next intersection take another right you will now be going against the traffic and up a ramp continue up the ramp  you will see a chain link fence on your left once at the end of the chain link fence go to the 1st  lamp post on your left make sure the base of it is at your feet and there will be touchdown  Follow the traffic and make a quick right, there will now be a gray building on your left and red storefront on your right. Go down the one way street and make a right at the second light. Trees will now be on your left, stop before the traffic light, near the yellow awning with blue and red letters are on your right. Touchdown is on the first letter on the blue word on the yellow awning. Turn so your going with the flow of traffic for the side of the road your on. At the intersection your going to want to do a uturn, going back the way you came on the opposite side of the road. Travel back, going straight through the first intersection you come to. At the next intersection, do another U Turn.  Watch the far right side of the road. You will see a pole with a red and white street sign, next to a driveway that dips down to a loading door. Stop in front of the loading door.

Touchdown is on top of the red and white street sign.  Position yourself so the fenced in area is on your left and a building with an American flag hanging up ahead is on your right. 

When you get to the first intersection, continue straight. You'll be traveling for a while down this long block. When you get to a light tan building with a long canopy that extends over the sidewalk on your left, you're about halfway there. 

At the next traffic light, move slightly  into the intersection. Turn your body left, and you'll see a a small square-shaped median with a tree and a few plants, one of which has yellow flowers. Touchdown is sitting at the base of the tree.  Face the flow of traffic and so the comic looking pictures are on your right. Go straight to the light and take a left. There will be a restaurant on your left now with a red sign and white letters. And another store on your right with a lime green sign. Go straight. You will pass scaffolding on your right and keep going straight. Next you will see a store with an orange canopy on your left. Keep going straight. At the next intersection there will be a store with a green sign and yellow letters to your front right. Take a left at this intersection. There should now be scaffolding to your left and a bank with a red sign and yellow letters to your left. Keep going straight but don't go past the scaffolding. In the middle of the scaffolding there is a sign with blue letters and a dog on it. Touchdown will be on the dog.  Stand with the blue and red sign on your right. Go against the traffic and make a left at the intersection, putting the big, red balls on your right. Pass the lit up trees and stop when you have passed the third intersection but are still by the crosswalk, near the black storefront with red lettering to your left. Touchdown is on the garbage can near that store. Orient yourself so that there is a mail truck in front of you. there will also be construction on your left and a black iron fence on your right. Go straight to the first intersection and make a right.

There will now be a median and more traffic to your left and a bike leaning against a pole to your right.

Go straight again, youll slowly merge left on to the freeway (it will do this automatically.

Right before the merge lane ends youll see a red and white triangle shaped sign in front of you. The touchdown is in the middle of this sign.



 Go with the flow of traffic. There will be scaffolding to your left. Head all the way down this long street to the intersection and then turn right.  As you head down this street, you'll see a bright yellow sign on your right.  After this sign you'll see four trees on the left surrounded by short little fences.  Pass these trees and then immediately stop.  Turn 90 degrees to your right.  you will see a section of the stone building that looks striped and three red hookups coming out of the sidewalk.  Touchdown is sitting on the sidewalk in front of the two hookups that are close to each other (the ones on the left). Orient yourself with parked traffic. Proceed around the bend in the road, passing a red dumpster on the right. Continue pass a basketball court and handball courts on the right. Proceed around the second bend in the road and pass several black pylons on the left. Pass a playground on the right as the road inclines slightly. Stop in the middle of the intersection. Touchdown is on top of the green box on the light pole ahead to the left. With the water to your left, follow traffic towards the bridge until you've just about passed a white concrete building on your right.  The windows of this building have many circle-shaped sticks, that are orange, red and blue, and have a 3D square in the center of each. The touchdown is dead center in the last such sticker, over the square. Look around and face the cobble stone street with the delivery truck parked on the right side. Enter that street and continue to the next intersection. Turn right at the intersection until you're standing next to the orange cone and ladder on your right. Touchdown is sitting on the sidewalk mid way between the bottom of the ladder and the cone closest to the curb. Turn yourself so you should see a red bus on your left and short green shrubby type trees on your right. At the very first traffic light, make a left. Go down this road, you'll pass construction on your left, keep going. When you come to the intersection with the traffic light, make a left. As soon as you the turn, look to the left and you should see a black and gray fire hydrant. The Touchdown is sitting right on top of the fire hydrant.  Head in the same direction as traffic.  There will be orange construction barrels on your left.  Almost immediately you will come to an intersection.  Turn right.  Up ahead on your left will be a yellow sign with lots of lights underneath it.  Be aware that the turn is a bit buggy; just keep an eye out for the yellow sign with lights to make sure you're on the right track.  Head straight down this street.  You'll go past one 3-way intersection.  Proceed straight ahead to the 4-way intersection.  Turn right.  There will be several different vertical store banners and signages on your right.  As you move down this street, watch on your left for a building covered with a huge black advertisement with white lettering and white horse's head.  Pass this.  After it, on your left, will be a restaurant with a red neon letters in the top windows.  Pass these red letters and stop.  Turn 90 degrees to your left and look up.  The aforementioned horse should be visible.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the horse's head.   Get oriented so you are going the same direction as traffic and head into the intersection. Make a left at that intersection. You will again be going the same direction as traffic. When you get to the smaller 3 way intersection keep going straight. You will see a white store front with a gold column on it to your left. Go straight but stop short before the intersection. You should see a small black store at your left and then a very orange store that is on the corner. Touchdown is on the ground at the base of the tree that is in front of the orange store. Travel under the bridge ahead and turn right as soon as possible while you are still under the bridge.  You'll have some concrete poles with the bottoms painted yellow on your right now.  Follow this road until you reach the next intersection and turn right.  Stop right there and look to the corner of the grey building on your right.  There is a security camera sticking out from the side of the building.  Touchdown is covering the round camera on the end of the pole. Orient yourself so the garage door with a painting of a hamburger is on your left.  Enter the intersection and turn left.  Walk down to the next intersection and turn left again.  Walk to the end of the block again and turn left.  Begin walking down the road, looking at the stores on your right.  There's a blue flag hanging from a white building on your right.  There is a red apple on the blue flag.  Touchdown is on the red apple. Go with traffic keeping the playground on your right side.
Turn right at the intersection. The playground will still be on your right side.
Keep straight pass the row of blue bikes on the right.
Turn, veer, right at the intersection. 
Stop at the crosswalk at the next intersection.
You can see a playground to the right.
Look right there is a street light pole with a black wire wrapped around it.You will be next to this pole. Touchdown is sitting at the center of the base of the street light pole. Hello there!

1. You should almost be in the middle of an intersection. Make sure that you're facing a small street with red buildings on either side. The one on the left has white awnings with a black storefront, and the one on the right has light beige awnings with a white storefront.

2. Step forward into the intersection, and take a right. The white storefront with beige awnings should now be on your left. At the next intersection, take another right.

3. There should now be scaffolding and orange and white construction barriers on your left. When you reach the next intersection, take a left and stop.

4. Turn slightly to the left. At the corner of the median with fencing and a lot of plants, you should see a black, mesh trashcan next to a lamppost/traffic light. Touchdown is sitting on top of the trashcan.

Good luck! :) Turn in the direction of traffic and walk to the end of the block. 

Turn right at the intersection and walk to the end of this block. On the left, you'll pass an empty storefront with red signs across the top and middle of the windows.

When you get to the middle of the intersection, stop and look to the right corner ahead. There's a black sign with a circle and a red star in the middle. Touchdown is on the red star.


 Stand so that the empty lot is behind you to your left. Move straight through the intersection and at the next intersection, turn left. Move to the next intersection and turn left again. When you reach the empty lot coming up on your right, face left and in the window is a white sign with a multicolored piece of cake. Touchdown is on the cake. Go with traffic down the one way. Turn right at the first intersection. Keep straight at the next intersection. There will be blue bikes on your right. Keep straight at the next intersection. Pass a building with a blue awning on the right. Keep straight at the next intersection. Keep straight again at the next intersection. Stop at the crosswalk of this intersection. There is a large black trash can on the right corner of this intersection. Touchdown is sitting at the opening of this trash can, position yourself so you are following the traffic and the red awnings are on the left and blue awning is on your right. Go to the intersection and turn right. Now the scaffolding is on your right. Go to the intersection. Turn right. Now you are on the street where the left side is under construction and the right side has scaffolding. Go straight till you reach the intersection on this road. There will be a store with flowers on your right side. Turn right here. You may feel like you are going against the traffic but it is fine. go straight forward. Soon on the right side you will see a delivery truck with purple/green letters on the back parked on the right side. Go catch up with that truck. Then you can see in front of it, there is a fire hydrant, the touchdown is on the white/silver part on that fire hydrant.  Turn to follow the flow of traffic and go forward. There should be a park on both sides of you. Go straight through the first intersection and turn left at the second intersection. You will see a red garage on your right. The touchdown is the the base of the flagpole on the garage. Orient yourself such that the building with barred windows is on your left. Take a step and turn right at the intersection. Proceed forward for quite a stretch, going through the first intersection and then making a slightly hard right at the second. There should be a store with merchandise outside on the right with an open door. Touchdown sits on the floor in the open doorway. Find the two flag poles that have american flags on them and face them.  Go forward into the intersection and turn left.  There should be a construction area on your right in front of a black building with red and blue signage and a brick apartment building on your left.  Go to the next intersection and turn right.  Walk to the next intersection turn right, step out of the intersection and stop.  The street you are on has green plywood awnings on both sides supported by scaffolding.  Rotate to your left so you can see the street corner and look up on the plywood awning.  There is a white sign with a logo and some words on it.  Touchdown is on the logo. Orient yourself so a post office is behind you. Turn right at the first light. Go through the next light and turn a slight right at the second. Turn right when you pass some scaffolding on the right, down a one way street. Go straight at the stop sign. Stop when the street starts to bend to the right and you are next to a store with a green awning. Touchdown is on the face of a woman in a red jacket in this store's door. Get turned so the scaffolding with a ladder is to your right. Go to the intersection you see.  Make a right turn. Go straight one block. Make another right turn. You will be on a one way street going the correct direction. Go to the end of this block that is a little longer. You will pass an opening on the left that cars can drive into. When you get to the intersection make another right turn. You will pass some windows on the left that have red lights in them. At the next intersection stop before you get to it and when you can still see the crosswalk on your side. Look to your left there are 2 yellow diamonds kind of low on a pole. Touchdown is on the top diamond. Start by heading with the flow of traffic and turn right at the first intersection with the scaffolding. With the scaffolding on your left, head forward to the next intersection and turn right.  You should pass some more scaffolding on your right and when you come to the first intersection, turn right again.  Head past all the traffic cones and about two thirds of the way down the street there will be a store on your right with large mannequins in the windows.  Face the first set of mannequins and touchdown is in the lower right hand corner of the window. (Or halfway up the right side of that same window, I had a bit of trouble placing him.) From your starting point, please turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  The row of blue bicycles should be on your left, and there should be an intersection right in front of you.  

Walk forward, and go straight through that intersection.  
On the other side you will see a bright yellow triangle-shaped sign on a pole on the left sidewalk.  Walk forward, but stop when you have just passed that sign.  When you are standing between parked, white box trucks on either side of you, you are in the right place.   

Turn around to look behind you, and you will see a purple banner hanging from a pole on the wall that is now on your left.  

Touchdown is sitting right on the top edge of this banner.  Turn so the pink sign is on your right.  Follow the direction of traffic to the intersection ahead and turn right.   You will still be going with the flow of traffic.  Follow this road one block and turn right again at your first opportunity.  Follow this road past the large rectangular red sign on your right and keep going until you see a red wall on your right.  Stop when you are around the middle of the red wall and look to your left.  There is a rectangular garbage can to the right of a street lamp that has a red image in the middle.  Touchdown is sitting on top of that box, Orient yourself so you are moving in the direction of traffic flow. Take the first right you come to. Go forward a long way until you reach another intersection. Turn right and then look immediately to the left. Touchdown is sitting on the sidewalk directly in front of an old rusted mail bin with white graffiti letters on it. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, so the carriage with a person in front of it is on your right. Follow this road down, and make a left at the first intersection. Take another left the next chance you can. You should see a yellow delivery truck a few steps down. Touchdown is on the D on the back of the truck. Hello there!

1. Make sure that you're going with the flow of traffic. There should be some scaffolding in front of a parking garage on your left. Take a right at the first intersection that you come across.

2. Upon reorienting yourself, there should be a reddish-brown brick building on your right and a black fire hydrant flanked by two orange bollards on your left. Follow this road, and when you reach the next intersection, pass through it and immediately stop.

3. On your left, there should be some blue scaffolding with red, black, and white signs on it. On the sign of the corner store underneath the scaffolding, you should see a red burger logo. Touchdown is in the center of this burger.

Good luck! :) you will have a brown building on your right with lots of potted plants in front as you enter the intersection, take a left, there is a yellow and white stripes painted store on your right, you will come to a 4 way, continue straight, there will be a phone booth on your left, before you enter the next intersection, on your left a bike is leaning against a sign pole, the bear is on the seat of that bike Step into the intersection and then turn right. Follow this street and turn right at the first light. Proceed through the first light on this road, then turn right at the second. Stop when outside a blue building with a darker blue door on your left. Touchdown is in the horns of the bull art to the left of this door. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, head down to the intersection, and make a right. Head down to the next intersection, and make another right.

About halfway down this street,  You will see a white truck and a white van parked on your left. If you look in between this van and truck, you should see glass doors, with a curved pipe sticking out of the ground. Touchdown is on top of the curved pipe. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Go forward to the intersection and turn left to go under the bridge.
Once on the other side, turn left and go forward so the bridge is running alongside you on the left.  Keep going until you can turn left again and go back under the bridge.  Stop when you get to the two red octagon signs.  Touchdown is on the left sign. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Turn left at the next intersection.
Moving forward you should see a lot of smoke/steam at the next intersection.  Go through it.
Turn left at the next intersection.  You should see an orange banner up ahead on the right.  Go forward.
Stop after passing the 3 blue awnings on the right and you'll see 2 black flags hanging off the building to the right.  Touchdown is on the base of the flagpole of the flag nearest you.

 Stand so that the scaffolding is on your right side. Move forward to the first intersection, and take a left followed by another left, so that you have made a u-turn. Move back down this same street that you started on until, soon, you are able to turn left. Do so and stop while still in the intersection. ahead of you to your left is a pink and white flag on a street light pole. Touchdown is on that pink flag. From your starting point, please turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  Walk down this street for a long distance until you come to an intersection.  

Turn right at this intersection so that you are walking in the same direction of traffic down a wide, one-way road.  Move forward until you come to another intersection.  

Turn to your right at this intersection, and you should see a yellow diamond-shaped sign with a see-saw on it on the left-hand sidewalk.  Walk down this narrow road. 

You will see two more yellow signs with see-saws up ahead.  Walk toward them, and stop before you pass between them, just before the end of the scaffolding on your right.  

Touchdown is sitting on the highest point of the yellow sign on the right. Turn so the basketball court is on your left side. At the intersection way up ahead go straight. There will be a store on the right with red lettering. Stop at about the halfway point in this store. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the blue circle bus sign on the the right sidewalk.  Turn so that you are facing the closest exit to the bridge you are on and walk forward toward the arch in the distance. Go through the arch. You want to stay in this lane. That means as you move forward you want to go down the road to the left of the small white posts. You should eventually reach the middle of the intersection. Turn left so that the arch is now back on your left. Walk forward and turn left up the ramp that is going back toward the arch. Stop right when there is a bent over orange cone right next to you on your left. Touchdown is at the base of this cone. Turn so you're walking with the flow of traffic and enter the small one lane street. Keep going straight until you reach the second intersection with traffic lights. You will see a pole with a clock on top on the right side. Touchdown is in the middle of that clock face. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  This places the playground on your left.

Go forward around the bend.  At the intersection, turn right.  This should put you on a narrow one way street with a red banner hanging up above on the right.

At the next intersection, turn right again down another narrow one-way street.  You'll see a green "awning" on the right.

Heading down this road, you'll come to silver door on your right.  Next to that is the face of a woman on a poster.  Touchdown is sitting on her face. Orient yourself so that there is green scaffolding ahead and yo your right and continue forward, following the flow of traffic. Turn left at the second intersection and you should see a large building on your left with green and black signs. Continue forward and turn left at the next intersection. Go forward and you will see a black motorcycle parked on the sidewalk on your right in front of a red door. The touchdown is the bike's rear light.  Turn around to face with traffic, then go forward to the end of block. There should be a building with bright red letters on the opposite side of the street. Take a right, and follow this curved road to the end of the block. Now take another right, towards the giant glass building. Now go forward past the glass building, and across the intersection. If it look to the right, you will see the street you started on, along with a traffic signal, a news stand, and a white trash can. Touchdown is in the bottom of the trash can. From the starting position, turn so that all of the people sitting at yellow-green tables with umbrellas are to your left. Move in this direction until you get to the traffic light. At the light take a sharp right down the narrow one-way street. Move down the street until you see a large blue sign with white writing on the left. The larger sign has a white arrow on it. Touchdown is at the tip of the arrow. Go with the flow of the traffic. There should be a delivery truck behind you. Go up to the intersection and take a left. You should see a phone store on your right now. Follow this road until you get to the next intersection and take a left. You should see another white mail delivery truck on your right. You're going to go up to the next delivery truck which has food in it.  There is a bush in a silver holder next to the silver stairs. Your touchdown is in the middle.  Orient yourself with the flow of traffic and proceed through the first intersection, then taking the left at the four-way fork, following a maroon van. Continue down this diagonal one-way street, passing straight through five minor intersections. Just before entering the sixth intersection, there is a no right turn sign on the right corner below two one-way signs. Touchdown is in the center of the no right turn sign.  Starting out, you should see a gray port-a-potty on your right.  Go straight with the flow of traffic until you come to a dead-end intersection. Turn left at the intersection. Go straight through the first intersection you see. Turn left at the next intersection. Immediately after you turn, on your left, you should see a couple of black boxes covered in graffiti at the bottom of a dark blue wall. Touchdown is sitting on the box on the right, on the far right of the top edge against the wall. Turn so your moving with the flow of traffic. Turn right at the first intersection. Stop just before you reach the next intersection. You should be in the actual crosswalk. Look to your right, and look down. You will see three manhole covers and one circular storm drain. Touchdown is in the middle of the storm drain.   On your right you should see a white colored building with a red glass door. On the left is is a building with green colored scaffolding. 
Go straight through the first intersection then make a right in the second intersection. 
You are now on a gray brick road.
Continue straight to the next intersection, but do not cross. On your left is a sign that is white with red lettering touchdown is sitting on the sign on top. Align yourself with the scaffolding lined street on your right, and head down it. Head to the first intersection, and make a left.

Make another left at the next intersection. You should see a green wall on your left with some construction barriers, and a food truck on your right.

Line up with the food truck and in the middle of the burger is Touchdown. Go in the direction that places the red store front to your left, with the flow of traffic. Make a left at the very first intersection. Make another left at the very next intersection. On the right you will come up on a long line of bike racks with blue bikes at the end of it, stop near the middle of this line of bike racks. Turn to your left and you should be right in front of a row of black trash bags on either side of a tree. Touchdown is at the base of this tree, where the trunk meets the dirt. Orient yourself with traffic and proceed forward. Pass an open entrance to a store's basement on the left and turn left at the corner. Continue down this street and drive under a streetlight with a shooting star on the right. Go straight through the light ahead, stopping when even with the door of the first store on the right. Touchdown is on top of the trashcan outside this store. Rotate to face forward toward the nearest street light.
Proceed forward to the intersection
Turn right at the intersection

Proceed forward while looking to your right.
You will notice a bus to your right.
As soon as you start to pass the bus on your right, you'll notice two grey circles, and a portion of a third grey circle, on mesh doors to your right. 
You will be aligned with the bus driver.

The bear is sitting in the middle of the leftmost circle.

 If you are in the correct position you are obviously between two walls and getting ready to head under a bridge. Please make sure you are in the proper direction the traffic flows. Now head straight. The road will eventually make you veer left do not worry your still going straight. To verify you did not get off track you should be going through a tunnel at this point. Please continue straight until you come out of the tunnel. Before entering the next tunnel you will see this sign that is white with black print this is right after you pass for orange traffic cones. It is on your right hand side. Touchdown is directly in front of that sign. With the umbrellas to your right, go straight through the first intersection. Take a left at the next intersection. Go down the narrow road. When you reach an umbrella vendor to the left and two mailboxes to the right, keep going straight. You should be crostraighting a pedestrian zone. There are two potted planters to the left. Touchdown is on the right planter. turn to go with traffic, there is a red brick building with green trim to your right, at the 1st intersection take a left, there is a store to the right with cream and green striped awnings. Continue to the next intersection, and take a left. On your left is a restaurant with an eye painted on it and outdoor seating, follow this road. you will pass a row of blue bikes on your right, on a building to your left there is an orange and red flag with a lion on it. Below that is a tall black door, to the left of the door is an outdoor lantern, the bear is on the lantern Hello, please orient yourself facing the direction of the parked vehicles. The red brick building with windows will be on your right. 

Move straight down this path. Ignore any turn that you encounter. You want to stay on this same path going straight until the first intersection.

Move into the middle of the first intersection. There will be a white and black sign to your left on a gray pole. There will be a bright white bicycle symbol on it.

Click on the bicycle to find the touchdown. Good luck! Align yourself with the flow of traffic via the parked cars. there should be a hydrant with a silver top on your left.

Head up to the intersection, make a right, then another right shortly afterwards. Head down this street with the trees in planters on your right. You'll pass a blue awning on your right, after two sets of scaffolding. After the blue awning, also on the right, you should see a bunch of plants on stairs and the gate. Touchdown is in the right most plant when facing the apartment, the one to the right of the door. Orient yourself to follow the flow of traffic so that there is construction on your left. Go forward and turn left at the first intersection.  Continue forward and go straight through one intersection and straight through the second one and then stop. There should be a green trashcan to your left. The touchdown is the bottom of the trashcan.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Turn left at the next intersection.
Stop at the last bike on the bike rack on your left.
Touchdown is on that bike seat. Align yourself with the back of the cop car and the school crossing sign. Head down to the four arrow intersection and make a right. Head all the way down to the next intersection, stop on the corner before the turn, you should be in behind a blue car. Touchdown is on the license plate of the car, once you reach the corner of the intersection. Face the correct traffic flow direction on this one way street. Go to the next intersection. Make a left turn. There should be a tree on the right side of you with some bushes that has a very low fence around it. Go straight. At the first intersection keep going straight. On your left side is a building with black awnings and green doors and trim. Keep going straight.  As you approach the intersection stay to the left. Go straight through the intersection. There is a large green construction wall around the building to the right. Go just a very short way forward. Look to your right and you'll see a black fire hydrant right next to you with a red top. Touchdown is on top of that. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and construction ahead.
Turn right at the intersection.  You should see two small bus like vehicles ahead.
Go forward to the next intersection and turn right.  You'll see construction at this intersection.
Go forward.  Soon you'll be presented with an option to go left, don't.
Move forward until you're next to a blue mailbox.  Touchdown is on the logo on this box. Orient yourself with traffic and proceed past the giant rat. Turn left at the traffic light then turn left at the next one as well. Stop a short distance from the next intersection, across from a bus stop. Touchdown sits on the bus stop's center seat. Going with the flow of traffic until you get to the first intersection and take a left turn. There will be a parking lot to your left and beyond that a domed white building.   Go to the next intersection and turn left. The fence to your right will have bright advertisements on it. Then there will be a few buildings after that fence on your right.  After that will be a tall green fence on your right.  There's a gate on that wall.  Touchdown is on the right gate panel  on the light orange sign. Position yourself with the flow of traffic.
Travel to the end of the block and make a left at the intersection. 
Proceed forward a bit and stop a short ways before the next intersection. 
Look to your left and you will see a biblical restaurant. 
Above it is a two toned air conditioning unit.
The touchdown is in the center of the black half of this AC unit.

 Turn so you going with traffic. Head straight down the road. Take a right at the light. Go to the next traffic light. Take another right here. Go straight down the street passing some parked yellow school buses. Stop just past the white delivery truck parked on the left side of the street. It has red and blue stripes. On the left there is a black awning with stripes on the bottom and top. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the circle on the front of this awning.  If you're in the correct position you'll see a building is made of brick and painting green on your left. On your right is a building of the green awning. Go to the first intersection of make a right. You should see a building that has a small red door and a red front on your right. Continue straight until you reach the next intersection then turn right. On your right side you should see a gray painted brick building.
Now continue straight until you come to a dead end and must turn. You will be turning right. On your left you will see a black fence with trees inside on your right you will see a brick blue building with a maroon awning. Continue straight and before you reach the next intersection look to your left you will see a gray colored box and touchdown is sitting directly on top of it. Turn so you going with traffic. Head down the street. Go straight at the light. Keep following traffic to the next intersection. Take a right. Go down this street to the next light. Take a right. There will be a green fence on the left. Go straight. At the next light go straight. Stop at the next intersection. You will see an orange heavy piece of construction equipment on the right side of the street(on the other side of the intersection). Look to your right and find the green box on the traffic light post. Touchdown is sitting on top of this green box.  Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic, and head to the nearest intersection.  Turn left (Navigation difficult).  Go to next intersection, turn left.  Then left at the next intersection.  There is a wall with grafitti on the right.  On the right side of the road, there is a green box with a red stripe.  On top are 2 buckets.  The bear is on the right one.   Turn so the parked red van is on your left. Head straight down the street. At the first intersection go straight. At the next intersection turn around so you are facing oncoming traffic. There will be a red lane on the left side of the street. Go slightly down the street and turn on the left into the service road. You will be facing oncoming traffic here. Go to the intersection stopping before you get to the crosswalk. To your left is a brick building. there are 2 vents on the side. Touchdown is on the right vent right in the middle. Turn so that you're facing the same way that the cars are driving. Go straight until the next intersection, then turn left. Continue until the next intersection and turn left again. There will be a tall pole with a red sign on your left. Touchdown is on the red sign. Orient yourself with the red awnings on your right, follow the traffic and make a left at the first traffic light. 
Go down this street, straight through the first traffic light and stop when you are right next to the first orange and gray bike parking spot. 
On your left, Touchdown will be on the top of that first bike parking spot. Follow traffic to the light, with the media with bushes and trees to your left.

At the light, go left and immediately left again, back down the street you just came up, again following traffic to the light, and with the median to your left.

Stop when you're standing on the crosswalk at the corner, and rotate to face right, where you're staring at a black fence on a red brick wall with a white stripe. 

To your right is a tall vertical grey information display. Touchdown is centered atop it. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  Go into the intersection and turn right.  When you do you'll see a playground and a lot of kids on the right.

Go straight until this dead ends and turn right.

Go straight a bit and look right to see a blue bike just before a van with yellow and peach on the back.  Touchdown is on the seat of this bike. Stand with the apartment buildings on your right and follow the traffic, make a right at the traffic light and stop before you reach the intersection. There should be a painted white bike sign on the ground in front of you to your right. Touchdown will be on that bike symbol. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the building with the green awnings to your left. Continue forward until you reach the first intersection and take a right. You should see a convenience store on your right and a building with a blue awning on the left. Continue forward until you reach the next intersection and go straight. Once again continue forward until you reach the next intersection and go straight. You should see a building with red awnings on your left and a white box truck on the right. Continue forward until you reach the next intersection and take a right. You should see a food stand on your left and a gray building on the right.  You will come up on some blue trash bags on the right side of the road. Stop before you're in line with a blue trash bags. Turn to your right and you should see a gray poll with a stripe of blue on the top. Touchdown is sitting at the base of the gray pole. Head the same direction as traffic. This block is kind of long but go all the way to the first intersection. Make a left turn. Once you are turned the corner store on your right side has a green awning on it. Go straight one block. Make another left turn at the first intersection you come to. There are red awnings on the buildings on both the left and right side once you have turned. You will be on a narrow one way road going the same direction as traffic.  There are 2 orange posts next to a black fire hydrant on your left. Stop right after you pass that. On the right side there is a bike by itself locked to a sign post. Touchdown is on the seat of that bike.  Orient yourself with traffic, proceed to the light, and turn right. Go through the first intersection and under a bridge. Go through the next intersection. Go through a pedestrian stop light. Stop outside a building on the right with red stairs. Touchdown sits at the base of the door at the top of these stairs. Turn and walk in the same direction as traffic. There are two choices, DON'T take the street with the animals painted on the storefront on the left. Take the other one. You may have to finagle a bit in order to take this street. After entering it, you will be walking along a long row of traffic cones on your right. Go right at the next intersection. Immediately pass by a building with purple bars over the windows and door on your right. Pass basketball courts on your left. Just ahead on your right, see multiple colorful flags along a chain link fence. Stop in front of them and turn to face them.  See an orange traffic cone against the wall to the right of the flags. Touchdown is sitting on top of that cone. Begin walking with the flow of traffic. A building with red doors and different colored signs will be on your right. Soon there will be a colorful painted mural on a building on your right. When you pass it, you'll make your first right turn at the traffic light. 

Go to the next intersection, and turn right again. Just ahead on your right is a red awning and then a yellow one next to it. Continue straight until you get close to the next traffic light. There is a construction area on your left and orange and white barrels in two rows in the road. Focus on the line of barrels that are joined by yellow tape. The very first orange and white barrel you arrive at that starts this row is where you'll find Touchdown. He is sitting right on top. Turn and walk in the same direction as traffic. Go right at the first intersection. Go through the next intersection, passing by pictures of women's faces on the corner building to your left. See a building ahead on your right with gray stripes on each of it's four columns.  Go through the next intersection. Come to one more intersection and go right. The fire escapes on your right are red. Pass by a green awning on your left, followed by a building with blue construction piping on your left. There is a white sign on that building. Standing in front of it, looking at it, see the round yellow glass window in the door to the right of it. Touchdown is in the middle of that window.  Go in the same direction as traffic.  There will be a building with a bright red storefront on your left.  Move forward to the first intersection.  Turn to the left.  There will be a store with a green awning on your left.  Move forward to the next intersection.  Turn to the left.  On your left side, you will see a building where the two 2/3 is painted white.  Move down this street, continuing until you see a red mural with a giant pigeon on your left.  Go just past the giant pigeon.  You should see another part of the mural that features a black deers and some sparkles.  Turn to face this deer.  There's a black fire hydrant on the sidewalk in front of it.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant.  Follow the traffic direction and pass this first intersection, stop when you reach the second intersection. You should see a store with red letters sign to your right and green awning with white letters to your left. Turn right at this intersection. then Go straight. When you reach the intersection, look to your left, there will be a blue awning, then a red awning, then next to the red awning there is a delivery company sign with 3 letters name on the window. The touchdown is on that logo of the company sign.  Orient yourself so you are going in the same direction as traffic.  Turn left at the intersection.  Go forwards through the first two intersections, and stop at the third one.  on one of the corners is a blue mailbox next to a black trashcan.  touchdown bear is on top of the mailbox. Orient yourself so the green awning is on your right, the green scaffold awning is on your left, and you are facing the same way as the parked cars.  Go to the end of the block and turn right at the intersection.  It's a little tricky, so just make sure you have a green scaffold awning on your left and a row of shops with various awnings on your right (eventually there's a red one with outdoor seating for eating).  At the next intersection turn right.  Look on your right side for a brown and yellow awning.  Walk down to it and look directly at it.  Above the awning is a row of windows and above them in the center is an ornately carved white decorative stone block.  Touchdown is in the center of this decoration. Orient yourself with traffic and proceed. Turn right at the light. Then turn right again at the next intersection. Turn right again at the next intersection as well. Stop before the next intersection. On the right corner in front of you is a traffic cone. Touchdown is on top of the cone. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Turn right at the next intersection.
You should see a couple red awnings ahead on your left, followed by some scaffolding.
Turn right at the next intersection again and you will have a wood store front with yellow lettering.
Head forward, passing the wooden store front, red brick and stop at the white building on your right.
On this white building is a white railing in the center with a hand railing leading below street level.  Touchdown is on the leftmost base of the railing.
 Turn so the the red booth is to your right and go down that street. Turn right at the first intersection and the go forward.Turn right at the next intersection and go forward. Stop when you reach a red van parked on your left. The touchdown is the center of the van's front wheel.  Turn so that you are facing two green signs, a white sign, and a red sign under the bridge. Walk under the bridge and go through the tunnel. You should reach an intersection. When you get to the intersection turn right. You should see metal garage doors on your right. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. The small cranes should be on your left. Walk forward until the green machine to your left is just ahead of you. Face left. You should see a white divider with yellow stripes next to an orange divider. Touchdown is at the base of the right most strip. Turn so you going against traffic. Take an immediate left. Go straight. You will see water along your route on the right of you. Go straight at the first light you come to. Go about a block. Stop when you see a white sedan parked on the left side of the road. Look to your left. You will see a fire hydrant with two posts. Touchdown is sitting on top of this fire hydrant.  Orient yourself with traffic and proceed. Turn right at the light. Cross a pedestrian crosswalk then stop in the next intersection. Touchdown is on the seat of the nearest bike in the bike share rack to the left. Get turned so the gold revolving door is on your right side. Go straight. At the first intersection you get to make a left turn. There are purple awnings on the building to your right. Go straight almost all the way down this long block.  You will pass a green fenced area on the right as you go. On the left you'll see orange road barricades. Go a little further past all of them. On the right is a garage door opening where cars can go in. Go just a bit further until you are almost next to the open door that is for people. Touchdown is in that open doorway on the ground. Orient yourself so that there is a red dumpster and bright orange bicycle signs on your right. A bit further down there are building pillars with bright yellows paint all in a row.

Go straight and make a right at the first intersection.

there should be construction on the left and a woman pushing a baby stroller on your right. Go straight and make a right at the next intersection.

There will now be more yellow painted pillars on your right and a covered bridge like building to go under. Right before you go under it there a light post with an orange and white flag to your left. The touchdown is located in the middle of the flag.

 Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
You should see a purple awning on your left.
Turn left at the next intersection.  You should see some barriers on your left and a plywood boarded up structure.
Head down this road through the construction and keep going until you come to the intersection and turn left.
The business on the corner to your left will have a black backdrop and yellow lettering in the sign.
Head forward until you have a chain link fence to your left
Just ahead of that is a red box, an orange box, and a green trash can.
Touchdown is hiding on top of the orange box. You're pretty much standing in a three-way intersection when you start.  Look for the store with all the white circles painted on the windows (one square, actually, and the rest are circles). Turn so that store is on your right and a little behind you, and the yellow newspaper dispenser is on your right side.  Walk forward, ignoring the chance to make a slight left.  Go straight through the next three-way intersection you come to (it has a traffic light). Just as you pass out of that intersection, note the orange and white construction barriers on the left.  Stop when you're even with the first patch of them.  You're also even with the last of the cafe tables at the restaurant on your right.  On the sidewalk to your right and just ahead of you is a green trash can with a gray domed lid.  The bear is on top of the trash can. Hello. You will be standing in a diagonal shaped intersection. Please orient yourself facing towards the long green wall so it is in front of you. On your right side, you will see some green scaffolding with green awning up ahead. There will be lots of wares for sale outside of a gray building with red awnings to your right side as well. On your left side, there will be a tan stone building with black accents near the sidewalk and tall windows.

Walk forward into the three-way intersection. Turn right.

There will be scaffolding with green awning to your right side. You will encounter a three-way turn as you proceed. Ignore this turn and continue straight on this path. 

You will reach a three-way intersection. Go straight through it.

As you approach the next intersection, you will need to shift to the left. This will bring you to the middle of the four-way intersection. Turn right.

There will be a silver food cart with colorful signs to your left side. Ahead on the right side, you will see a large blue sign with large white letters. 

Walk forward, ignoring the three-way turn that you encounter. Go straight through it. Keep your eyes on the left side. You will pass by a large blue truck with white letters and yellow accents. Keep going.

When you reach the next four-way intersection, stop in the center. Walk forward ever so slightly. You will see two red trucks with white and yellow letters on your left side. To your right side, you will see a mesh trashcan next to a crushed cardboard box with white accents. 

Touchdown will be at the top of the dark mesh trashcan next to the box on your right side. Good luck! Turn yourself so you are facing with traffic and move down the street.  Continue down this street until you get to the first intersection and turn left.  As you move down this street toward the next intersection you should see a red cart with a red and white umbrella on your right.  Go left at intersection..After you turn left, turn yourself left until you see Touchdown sitting on top of the blue mailbox. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic with scaffolding to your right.  Move over so you can be on that street and go forward.

You should be going down a long row of parking on both sides.

Turn right at the next intersection.  You should be moving along with the elevated road on your left.

Turn right at the next intersection.  Once you do you'll see a white and red brick wall on your right.

Go straight through the next intersection and stop at the red awning on the right.

Touchdown is on the little line between the numbers on the front of this awning. Turn so you're walking with the flow of traffic. Go forward until you're in the tunnel, then cross over when you can and backtrack against traffic out of the tunnel. Turn left at the first intersection and continue against traffic until the next intersection. On the right side of the street before you get into the intersection is a fire hydrant. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant. Turn so you are going with traffic. Go straight. At the light take a left. You will see a red van parked on the right. Go straight. At the light turn left and stop. You will see construction on the left. Touchdown is sitting on top of the two orange construction signs on your right(they are on the corner on a light pole).
 Turn yourself so that there is a red building to your left and a bus stop to your right. Go forward on this road. When you come to the first traffic light, make a right turn. On your right you should be passing a white brick building with several long white lights on the side of that building. Go straight on this road. As you go forward you will see some construction wall and beams to your right. Right across the street from this on your left, you will see a solo orange and white road barrier. Touchdown is sitting in the middle top section of the barrier.  Orient yourself so that the business with the green awning is on your right and go forward. Continue to go straight under the bridge. You will go straight through the two intersections that are right after one another. Go forward and you will see a playground on your left. The touchdown is on a smiley face on the white painted bench.  Turn and go in the direction with the traffic. Turn right at intersection. Turn right at the next intersection. There is a wood wall to the right. Blue awning to the left. Get beside the first tree on the wood wall. Touchdown is sitting at bottom of tree.  Turn yourself so there is an open garage door on your left and a red door on your right.  Go straight.  You will pass straight through the first stoplight you come to. When you come to the next stop light, turn right.  Go to the next stoplight and turn right again. Almost immediately after you turn, you should see a bright pink sign on your left. Touchdown is covering the person's face on the sign. Orient yourself so you are facing the same way the traffic is moving.  Walk to the intersection and turn left.  Walk to the next intersection and turn left again.  Walk to the intersection, turn left and stop.  On the green awning on blue scaffolding on your right, at the corner is a white sign with blue letters and a drawing of a city skyline.  Touchdown is right in the center, on the city skyline. With the parking garage to your left, go straight and take a right at the first intersection. Then take another right at the next. Go past some potted plants on the left. When you near the next big intersection, stop. There should be two cones to the right. Touchdown is on the nearest one. Face the direction of the traffic and make a left at the second street light. There will be a brown building on your left and scaffolding on your right. Go down that street and make a left at the first light. Go straight and stop at the green scaffolding on your right and white building on your left. Touchdown is in front of the two red squares above the white framed door on the white building to your left. Orient yourself with the barriers to the left, and go straight. Continue straight through the intersection with the stairs, and then take a right when you see oddly sloped white and orange barriers. Take another right and go straight past a dumpster. Go past the garage and stop when you are at a green scaffolding to the right. Touchdown is in the middle of the white of that scaffolding. Turn and walk the same direction as traffic. There will be a flag decorating the building up ahead. At the intersection, go left, passing the flag now on your right. Before reaching a large poster of a person ahead on the right, don't miss a left hand turn at your next intersection. If you pass it, just back track. After turning, you will see a yellow building up ahead on the right. The road you are on is split down the middle with orange and white barriers. Go straight ahead. At the intersection with the yellow building, walk to the middle of the intersection and go just a bit further, stopping before the traffic cones on the right. Turning to look at the yellow building, see a white sign with a red circle on it. Touchdown is in the middle of that circle.  orient yourself so that the chain link fence and bus stop are on your right. The white and red brick building should be on your left.  go straight, keeping the school / school yard on your left. keep going straight, past the school until you reach the intersection. at the intersection keep going straight. after crossing the intersection you should be between a brick building on your right and left. keep going straight until you reach another intersection. keep going straight through that intersection. there will be a red building with a blue awning on your left, keep going straight past that blue awning. go straight a little further until you see a bunch of garbage bags on the sidewalk to your left. touchdown is at the base of the first garbage bag on your left Face with the flow of traffic. An intersection should be right in front of you. Turn left.

You will have a business with a black sign over black awning on your left. Walk until the end of the block. 

At this next intersection, you'll only be able to turn left or right. Going straight is not an option. Turn left.

Walk down to the end of this block and stop in the middle of the intersection. On your right will be a business with black sign, white letters, and a green strip on the bottom. Outside the business is a faded red post. Touchdown is at the base of this. Orient yourself so the blue scaffolding is on your right and the bushes surrounded by a fence is on your left.  Head forward a short ways to the intersection and turn right.

Move in this direction until you reach the next intersection.  There should be some tall, brick buildings across from you on the left and some scaffolding if a green barrier on top on the right.  You should turn right here.  You should now be moving along a one way street with cars parked along either side.  Continue moving forward until you reach the second intersection.

You should be right in front of a large bridge.  Turn right so the bridge stays on your left and move forward.  When you reach another intersection turn right.

After making your turn, if you look around there will be a pole right in front of you with a variety of signs on it.  You should see two black and white signs, three green and white signs, a green, white, and black sign, and a red and white sign all of that pole.  Touchdown is sitting on the red square in the corner of the red and white sign. Go in the direction traffic is flowing making sure that there is scaffolding to your left. Make a right at the traffic light and go down the block. Make another right when you see the building with the green and yellow blocks on the front of the building. The colorful blocks should now be on your left and a red store awning is on your right. Go straight and stop after you pass the traffic light. There will be scaffolding on the right with a telephone booth and red box near it. Touchdown is on top of the red box to the right of the telephone booth/ Orient yourself with traffic so you are facing a body of water and elevated road. Proceed to the light and turn left. Pass over a pedestrian crosswalk. The yellow lines will split into a 'y' before the next intersection and you should turn left. There will be a baseball field to your right. Stop when a road intersects from the left. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant on the right sidewalk of this intersecting road. Align yourself with the flow of traffic on this street, the garbage bags should be on your left. Head up the street to the intersection to make a right, and another right shortly after. There should be a purple with red trim building on your right 2nd floor up on this 2nd turn street.

A little ways down you'll run in to scaffolding on both the left and right side. Stop just before the left side scaffolding, there will be blue-ish trim with glass doors to your left, on the right door, there are two lamps and two white signs. Touchdown is in the middle of the right sign on the right door. Orient yourself with traffic on the one way street. Turn right at the first intersection. Continue straight through one intersection and then turn right at the next intersection. There will be a playground on your left now. Continue straight through one intersection with a traffic light. Just past that intersection begins a low brick wall on the left. On the right is a red staircase leading to a set of blue double doors. Touchdown is on the door handles. Follow the flow of traffic and turn right at the first intersection. Keep left as you pass the cube and stop as you reach the intersection with the green man statue on the left. The touchdown is across the street and to your left at the base of the black trashcan.  Orient yourself with parked cars and proceed forward to the light and turn right. Turn right again at the next light. Stop in the middle of the next intersection. A yellow news box should be ahead and to the left. Touchdown is atop the box. Turn so you are heading with the flow of traffic (On your side).  Take the first right.  Look right.  Stop in front of the parking garage entrance.  To the right of the entrance is a green and red hose hookup. The bear is in the middle of the green one.   Align yourself with the faded red umbrellas on your left, with the flow of traffic in your lane. Head past the first intersection and make a right at the triangle intersection ahead.

you'll make another right at the next intersection, you'll want to stop just past the green dumpster. On the opposite side, you'll see a blue sign on the scaffolding if you look slightly up. Touchdown is in the middle of the sign. Turn yourself so that you are facing the direction of traffic. A white building with green balconies should be to your left. Walk to the intersection. At the intersection, turn right.

As you walk a few paces, you should see a green barrier and orange and white construction barriers to your right. Walk to the intersection. Turn right here. 

Once you've turned, you should see the construction barrier on the right side of the road, and store with a neon blue and pink sign on its window to the left. Walk straight.

As you get to the next intersection, turn right. Only walk ahead one or two steps. You should see a black shop with white lettering on the left, and a tree behind a black fence to your right. Right before the black shop, there is a white building with a poster of two people on the door. At the bottom of the door is some trash bags. Touchdown is at the bottom of the door in the left corner, next to the trash bags. 




 Align yourself so the scaffolding with the red sign is on your right. Head up to the intersection to make a left. Shortly after, make another right at the median intersection, and look to your right for a blue, and also an olive green post box next to a green trash can. Touchdown is on top of the green trash can. Turn to face in the direction of traffic. You will have some construction scaffolding on your right. Go down to the end of the block and turn right. You will have a blue mailbox on your right. Walk down to the end of this block. Turn right so you have the restaurant with Christmas lights strung outside on your right. Walk to the end of the block and make one last right turn onto a brick street. Walk down until you see a green wall blocking off some construction. Follow this wall until right before the end. Touchdown is on the top corner where the wall ends. Turn so you're walking with the flow of traffic in the 4 lane street. Go straight and continue straight at the first intersection. At the next intersection turn left. Continue straight until you arrive at an intersection where you can turn left. There will be 3 yellow short poles in front of you. Touchdown is sitting on top of the center yellow pole. Align yourself so the black park sign is on your right, and head up to the intersection to make a left. You'll make another left shortly after. You should have a fenced in court on your right after the second turn. There's only one piece of scaffolding to your left, head a couple steps past it and you should see a red door. Touchdown is on the gold doorknob of the door. Turn and go in the same direction as the traffic. Orange and white cones on your left. Go all the way to the next intersection and turn right. 2 red awnings on the right. Turn right at the next intersection. Go a very short distance and on the left will be a store and in the window is yellow, red, green and blue bags. Above the window is a ladder. Then next to the store is a brown and yellow flag and Touchdown is at the end of the pole.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Go straight through the next intersection.
You will pass some orange cones on the left.
Turn left at the next intersection.
Go straight through the next intersection.  This intersection has a store on the right corner with an orange background and green lettering.
Go straight through the next intersection.  You will see scaffolding on the left.

After cross the intersection, look right and you'll see a single tree on the sidewalk.  Touchdown is at the base of this tree.


 Start walking down the super long block, the same direction as traffic. Make a left at the first intersection. Go straight into the next intersection and stop. There is a phone booth here to your right with a garbage can next to it. Touchdown is sitting on top of the garbage can. From your starting point, turn around so that the wall with the pink and green mural is on your right, and the trees and benches are on your left.  

Walk forward, against the flow of traffic on your street, and ignore the first side street to your right.  Move forward until you are in the middle of a four-way intersection with cross walks.  

Turn to your left, and walk down the road with low, red brick walls on both sides.  

Before you reach the crosswalk at the next intersection, stop and look up at the lamppost on your right-hand sidewalk.  There should be a black and white sign with an arrow.  Touchdown is sitting just off to the right of this sign, so that the arrow is pointing to his red t-shirt. Follow traffic to the light and go left.  You will pass windows with the Union Jack on your right. Go left again at the next light, down a narrow 1-way with scaffolding.  After you pass the brown entry canopy with white text on the right, stop and turn to face the shop after it. Behind the glass door will be red and yellow squares.  On the long glass above the door and windows is a white sticker.  Touchdown is adhered to it. Turn and walk in the direction of traffic.  There should be graffiti on the walls to your right. At the upcoming intersection, go right. There should be a black iron fence along a park to your left. Walk ahead and go right at the next street. You should immediately see a blue door with a red frame and small stone statues above just ahead to your left. Walk past it, and find yourself passing a second one also. Just past the second one, stop and turn toward your left. You will see a red staircase to the blue door on your left, and a small tree right in front of you.  Touchdown is sitting in the lowest V of that tree.  Follow the flow of traffic, with the scaffolding on your left and make a right at the first intersection. Continue past the yellow awning on your right and make a right at the first intersection. There will be a grassy fenced area on your right and a black storefront on your left. Move forward and quickly stop. On your left, Touchdown will be on top of the fire hydrant, which is in front of the black storefront.  Turn to go with the traffic flow, past the construction on the left, to the intersection and turn left. There will be a red brick building to your right when you turn. Continue to the next intersection and turn left. Move up in front of the building with the blue canopy over its door on the right. Touchdown is on the canopy. Turn so the green construction is on your right.  Follow the flow of traffic through the intersection ahead.  Turn left at the next intersection.  You'll see a store with a black awning on your right.  Keep following the direction of traffic a short way to the next intersection and turn left again. You'll now have construction on your right.  Continue down this road and stop when you reach a row of blue bikes on your left.  Touchdown is sitting on the seat the the first bike you come to.  The one under the green construction scaffolding. Orient yourself so that you are facing the close intersection, with a row of trees on your left. Move forward to the intersection. You need to move straight into the intersection (past the first opportunity to turn 4 ways), and then there will be another 4-way spot. At the second 4-way spot of this same intersection, turn left. Now you should have a courtyard area with trees on your right, and a median with bushes on your left.

Move ahead to the next intersection and turn left. Then before fully exiting the intersection, you need to turn left again (making a u-turn). Now move ahead until you are almost at an intersection. On your right is an area with a low brick wall. At the spot where there is an open driveway in between the brick border, touchdown is on the ground in the center. Go in the same direction as traffic.  Move forward to the first intersection.  Turn left.  There will be a building with blue awnings on your right.  When you must choose whether to go left or right when the road divides, keep to the left.  The fenced in park will be on your right.  Go straight ahead to the first stoplight you encounter.  Turn left.  There will be a building with tall white columns and red doors on your left.  Go straight until you reach a stoplight.  Turn left at this stoplight as well.  You'll pass a green arched awning on your left.  Stop just after passing this awning.  Turn to your right.  There is a black door with a black triangle above the door.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this triangle.   Turn yourself so you are facing traffic and there are green park benches on your right and start down the street.  Turn right at intersection.  Fenced in park area will  be on your right.  Continue straight past cement archways. Turn right at T crossing.  Cement archway will be on your right.  turn right at intersection and continue through archway.  As you exit archway, Touchdown is sitting on the curve of the sidewalk to your right. Orient yourself with traffic and proceed, passing by basketball courts on the right. Turn left at the next light after passing a restaurant with an aquatic theme. Proceed down this next road, passing a vibrant blue awning of a store on the right. A building on the left at the next corner has numerous bulbs under its awning with neon letters. Turn left at the light at this corner as well and head down the road. Pass by some fresh sidewalk on the right, but don't step in it. Proceed to the end of the barricades and pass a dumpster with blue tarp next to a speed bump. Continue pass a fire safety vehicle parked on the right and stop when outside a house on the right with five trashcans on its sidewalk. Touchdown is centered on the number of this building in the yellow bulb above its door. Turn so that the moving truck is on your left.  At the next intersection, turn right.  Pass the building on the right with the red sidewalk overhang, and stop.    Looking at the building look across the sidewalk.  There is a silver shape on the roof of the brick building the bear is on top.   Orient yourself so that the scaffolding is on your left and you are going with the flow of traffic.  Go to the intersection and turn left.  There will be a building with three red billboards on the side after you turn.  
Move forward just slightly.  You goal is to get back on the same road, only going the other way.  You will get the opportunity to turn left before you cross over the crosswalk.  Turn left.  
Scaffolding will be on your right now.  Head all the way down this street.  Take a left at the first intersection.  You will be very near where you started.  
There will be a building with a curved gray edge ahead of you on the right.  Head straight towards this, but right before you cross over the crosswalk, stop.  Turn to your right a bit.  There is a trash can with a white liner.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this trashcan, in the middle. Turn so you can enter the street ahead.  You will have the brown brick building on your left and construction on your right.  Follow this one way narrow street past the first intersection and turn left at the next one.  On your right will be a black painted storefront with grey awnings.  Follow this road, watching on the left for a store under construction behind green wooden walls.  Stop when you are beside that construction and look at the sidewalk on the right in front of the blue building.  There is a single black fire hydrant there with a silver top.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the black fire hydrant. Follow the flow of traffic and turn right at the next intersection. Go forward and turn right at the next intersection. You will straight through two intersections and then stop at the third. There is a parking garage down the street on your right. The touchdown is the yellow drain near the left of the entrance.  Orient yourself with traffic and proceed. Turn right at the first light. Proceed down this street. Stop before you are even with a white house on the right. The house next to this is a tan house with a darker door with gold highlights and circles. Touchdown is on the handles of this door with golden highlights. Follow the flow of traffic to the next intersection.  Continue through the first intersection.  Turn right at the second.  Continue forward, turn right at the next intersection.  Just before you enter the next intersection, turn left.  There is a fire hydrant between 2 posts.  The bear is on top of the left post. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Go straight through the next intersection and you will be alongside orange and white barriers and a green retaining wall on the left.
Turn right at the next intersection where you see scaffolding on the right corner ahead of you.  Start heading down this road, passing walls on both sides of the street that are painted with murals.  Go straight through the 3-way intersection and past the national flag on the right.  At the end of the building with that flag is a red door.  Above that doorway is a carving.  Touchdown is hiding on the carving. Turn so that you are facing the same direction as traffic and proceed to the traffic light up ahead.
Turn right at the traffic light.

Proceed to the next intersection, you will se a bright orange side to the right as you arrive.

Turn right again at this intersection. you will travel down this long block towards the next traffic light passing brick building on both sides paying attention to the left side of the street.
You  will see a bright yellow awning to the left, slow down.
After passing the yellow awning notice the scaffolds on the right side.  

Pass that scaffolding and Stop and turn to the right and see the tree on the sidewalk with colorful flowers underneath.

 Touchdown is at the top of this tree







 Go with traffic toward the bridge.
Keep straight at the right turn only.
Turn right at the right turn only. A gated parking lot will be on your left.
Turn right at the double stop sign intersection.
Stop just after going straight at the next intersection. 
Look to your right, on the wheel chair ramp, on the large red building there is a stone trash can on the ramp. Touchdown is sitting on top of the stone trash can.
 Align yourself with the flow of traffic, with the scaffolding on your right. Head down to the intersection, and make a right, there should be a row of blue bikes on your left heading down this street.

Head all the way in to the intersection, and turn your camera 180. There should be two peppers on the sign of the store to your right. Touchdown is on the right pepper. Align yourself against the flow of traffic, where the school bus is facing you. Head down to the next intersection, and make a left at the intersection. You should be following the flow of traffic down to the next intersection. If you look to your right, you should see two do not enter signs. Touchdown is on the middle of the right sign. With the shop with the grey facade and red letters on your right, go straight ahead to the light and go right. [Interface note: You'll need to go left to change lanes way prior, else you won't be able to turn right at the light.]

There'll be bushes on both sides behind black fencing. Stop when you reach the yellow square on the street in front of the ramps going away from you on both sides of the street. Rotate right.

Touchdown is on the black trashcan to the right of the path there.
 Go in the same direction as traffic, with the road ahead curving to the right  Follow this road all the way around to an intersection, and go right. There is construction all along this road, stop just in front of the chain link fence barrier coming up on your left. Facing it, Touchdown is sitting on top of the first white barrier in front of the chain link. On top, and in the center.  Turn yourself so that there is a traffic light right in front of you. At that traffic light make a right turn. Go to the next traffic light and make another right turn. There will be silver construction scaffolding on your right. Go down this road. When you come to the next traffic light, make another right turn. You will have orange and white construction barriers on your right. At the end of those barriers there is a gray rectangular pole with a blue P on it. Touchdown is sitting on top of that rectangular pole.  Position yourself in such a way that you have a school to your right and then go forward. Keep going straight until you reach an intersection and then turn right. At the next intersection turn right again and then go forward. Keep walking until you reach a brown building with white scaffolding. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of a white lamp like design in a store to your right. Hello. Please orient yourself facing against the flow of traffic. There will be a movie theater to your right side. You will see a building with a red apple on the sign above it to your left side.

Walk forward to the first intersection. You will see a building with red striped awning to your left that has a lot of windows. Turn right here.

Continue straight for a little bit while keeping an eye on the left side. You will see a black building with a colorful sign that has red letters. The design looks like colorful spotlights with red, green, purple and yellow in the middle that repeats the pattern of color again. 

At the top of these colorful spotlights on the sign, there will be a red flag. Touchdown is on the red flag. Good luck! Turn fo you are going with traffic down a tree tined one way street, you will have a brick building with bright red escape stairs to your right, follow this road , you will pass an awning that is covered in plastic to your left, keep going , you will pass orange and white construction barriers on your right, continue to the intersection. Turn right at the intersection, there will be a large church to your right, continue to the next intersection, across the street to the right is a hydrant next to a trash can, the bear in on the trash can. Turn and walk in the same direction as traffic.  Go left at the first 4 way intersection. Go left at the next intersection. Upon turning, notice the billboard with a red haired woman to your left. Walk straight ahead. You will soon notice a small lime green building in front of a parking lot on the left. Go past it. Stop in front of the 3rd building down past it on the left. It will be dark brown with an arched doorway.  There is a ladder hanging above the door. Touchdown will be on the first step up the ladder, right in front of the light bulb over the door.  Turn to face with traffic, then go to the end of the block, past the kaiju mural. Now go to the end of this block, there will be a food place and some graffiti across the street. Take another right, and go forward until you reach construction--you may be tempted to turn on your way here, do not. Inch forward pas the heavy machinery, until you see a hole directly on your right--there may be men working on it. Touchdown is on the traffic cone in front of the hole. Keep  the store with the anchor on its sign to your left, moving with traffic, at the 1st T, take that right, there is outdoor seating on the left. there are a row of blue bikes ahead on your left , at the intersection after the bikes take a right. There is a fence with lit trees on your right, at the next intersection, take another right. on a light post there is a star ornament, keep moving forward.  Just before the next intersection, on the left, a restaurant has a chili pepper as their logo, the bear is on the pepper Follow traffic and go left at the light, and left again at the next light.  Stop when you just get to the edge of the scaffolding on the left.  Rotate right.  There's a tall thing square grey parking meter with a blue band to the left of an olive colored mailbox in front of you.

Touchdown sits atop the grey meter. Turn so that you are facing the same direction as the cars. There will be a shop with brown paper on the windows to your right.

Walk down into the intersection and turn left. You're now on a one-way road moving with the cars.

Walk through the first intersection on this road. Once you are through, start paying attention to the left side of the road. You will see a streetlight with a banner and plant on it. Touchdown is on the white sign just under the plant.
 Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic with the wooden framed barriers and orange netting on your right.  When you get to the intersection down the road, you will see yellow, green and blue vertical blocks sticking our from the building across the street on the right.  Turn right at this intersection.
After you turn, you should see a red awning jutting out towards the street on your right.  Go to the next intersection ahead and turn right.
When you do, you will see scaffolding on your left and a row of blue bikes on your right. go forward a bit and you'll find some tall rot iron fencing on the left.
Over the doorway into the building you should see a stone arch.  Touchdown is in the middle of the arch over the doorway. Align yourself so that the green awning will be on your right., Head up to the intersection and make a right. When you pass a blue trailer on your left, you're getting close. Pass the blue trailer and immediately on your left should be a parking meter and a potted plant with a young tree. Touchdown is sitting at the base of the young tree in the pot. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, via the parked cars. Head up to the intersection, and take a left, then another left at the next intersection shortly after. You should be on a smaller one way street now.

You'll see some construction materials and scaffolding on your right much further down this street on your right. After the scaffolding ends, you'll see a tree with a planter in front of a red awning on a tan or stone brick building. 

There is a tree in front of the awning in a planer. Touchdown is at the base of the tree. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, with the gifts sign on your right. Head up to the intersection, and make a left, then another left at the next intersection.

Head down this street until you hit a parking lot. You should see a blue and white kiosk with a machine and a green sign above it, most likely with a man accessing it. Touchdown is sitting on the rounded top of the machine. Turn around and go with the flow of traffic.Turn right at the first traffic light. Go to the next traffic light and turn right.Turn left so that you are going against the flow of traffic but stop right after you turn.Turn around and cross the road at the corner you will see an orange sign under 2 signs with arrows on them Touchdown is in the middle of the orange sign. Orient yourself so you are going in the same direction as the traffic.  Begin walking down this street until you reach the first intersection (don't worry, it's quite a ways away), where you'll turn right.  Start walking up to the next intersection, but stop just before you enter it.  Rotate to your left and see a red and yellow newspaper box just before a trashcan and the post for the crosswalk sign.  Touchdown is on top of the red newspaper box. Orient yourself so that you are moving with the flow of traffic. Go straight through the first intersection. At the second, turn left. Go to the next intersection and turn left again. Go straight until you are almost at the next intersection. On your left is a food truck with two blue and yellow umbrellas. Touchdown is in between the umbrellas. Align yourself with the flow of traffic. Go two steps, and make a right. Follow down to the next intersection and make another right. Go down this street until you find a famous brown delivery truck. Touchdown will be on the side panel logo of the brown truck. Walk against traffic, opposite the way the cars are going. Go straight through 4 intersections at the 5th intersection, make a left. A few steps up on this street, you see a cream colored overhang on the right, there is a green mailbox here, touchdown sitting on top.  Turn yourself so that you are going in the same direction as traffic. Go to the nearest intersection and turn left.  Go down the narrow road, past the construction zone on the right.  When you get close to the intersection, look to your right.  You should see a black wall with bright, rainbow colored words. Touchdown is in the center of the colorful heart that is to the lower left of the words. Turn to follow traffic, with the decorated trees on your right, and the black wall and then Jersey barriers on your left, and walk to the end of the block. Go left.

You should see a store to your right with huge dimension letters and a giant red heart. Walk to the end of the block, and go left, down a one-way street.  

You should pass a building with a very bright neon-blue sign band on your right, and see reddish overhangs, as well as red and white ones, on the building to your left. 

Walk to the very first street light you see on the left, which will have a black fire hydrant with a grey cap next to it.  You should see a shiny metal door nestled between the reddish building on the left and the building with a lot of glass windows on the right. There's a small square metal pipe outlet, and a yellow metal cap clearly visible.

Touchdown is impaled on the yellow pipe cap.

 Turn to walk with the flow of traffic. At the end of the long block, turn right. Walk down to the next intersection. Turn right so you have the ice cream truck at the curb on your left. Walk down this street until you see a parking lot on the right. Just past the parking lot is construction scaffolding on the right. Once you pass this scaffolding, there will be construction scaffolding on the left of the street. Stop before you come parallel with the scaffolding. Touchdown is up on the left corner of the white sign at the top of the scaffolding. Orient so you have a green neon sign on your left, a set of three red signs on your right.  Go forward until you can turn left (very short).

Turn left so that green neon sign is on your right.  There is a bunch of scaffolding on the right.  Go left at the first intersection just until you're on the opposite side of the road.  Turn left completing the u-turn.

Go forward until you're just in front of the intersection that has a large amount of scaffolding with a white banner and black writing above it.

You'll see a black bell in the median where you are.  Touchdown is on the black bell. Follow traffic to the light and go right.  At the end of the block, go right again. Go right one more time, just enough to clear the crosswalk and look ahead and to the right, for the red square sign on the green metal pole.  Touchdown is affixed to it. Going with the flow of traffic, go to the first stoplight and turn right.  There will be a  tall chain link fence on your left.  Go straight through the first intersection.  Veer right at the fork so that your in the lanes of traffic closest to the playground to your right. You will need to veer right before you get to the light so that you can turn right.   After you turn right there will a tall gray wall with graffiti on your right.  At the next intersection there will be a wire waste basket on the right hand side, Touchdown will be sitting at the top of it. Follow traffic to the light and go right, with the store having the green sign band with white text on your left and the big purple sign band on your right.

Go to the end of the block and stand in the middle of the intersection.  Rotate slightly to your right, and just ahead of you, you'll see an island with two white bollards with double grey stripes. One is tilted, and the other is straight and closer to you. 

Touchdown is impaled on that bollard. Orient yourself so that you are going in the same direction as the parked cars. Go all the way down the one way street until you finally come to a traffic light. Turn right at the intersection. Now you should see some green and silver scaffolding on your left and a low black iron fence on your right. Go straight until you come to the next traffic light. Turn right. Go a short distance until you see a colorful, fenced in playground on your left, and another, smaller playground on your right. The playground on the left has a blue and yellow plastic slide.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the blue canopy of that piece of equipment. Turn yourself so that you are going with the flow of traffic. There will be a mostly blue building on your right. Go to the first traffic light and make a left turn. At the next traffic light, make another left turn. Go straight down this road. You will go through two traffic lights. After you go through the second traffic light, you will see a building on your left that has a yellow banner with red writing. Right after that banner there is a gray fire hydrant. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant.  Go right at the light, following traffic and passing a building with American flags on your right. At the next light, go right, passing brown awnings on your right and k-walls with green on your left. At the dead end of the block, go right.  At the end of the next block, with the grey bollards and red awning on your left, go right.

Now the k-walls will be on your left and a glass building with bollards on your right.  Stop before your pass the door that has a big round bronze plaque to the left of it and face that door. Touchdown is centered on the round bronze metal plaque. Orient yourself with traffic and proceed straight. Turn right at the first intersection. Go to the next intersection and turn right. You should find two traffic cones on the right side of the street. Touchdown is under the first one. Go to the intersection and turn right so that you are going down the street with the blue rental bikes on your right.Turn right at the first traffic light there will be blue and red awnings on your right. Go to the next light and make a right turn.Go about half way down this street and on your right you will see a fire escape ladder on your right. touchdown is sitting between the last 2 rungs of this ladder Orient yourself to the left. There will be a maroon can with the letter MDR on the back, in front of you.  Make a right at the second intersection. Follow that street, make a right at the first intersection. At the next intersection you will find the touchdown on the left hand side. Its located on a mailbox directly across from the bright pink wall painting. Don't enter the intersection. Turn and go down the narrow street with the green bike path along it's left side. After entering it, you have the opportunity to turn right.  Don't, just keep going straight. There will be another right hand turn ahead.  Go straight once again and immediately stop. Turning to face the corner building on your right, find the circular window sign right on the corner of it. Touchdown is in the middle of that circle window. Go with traffic flow down a long block, through the first full intersection then turn right immediately on the next intersection. When you turn there will be large cement barriers on the left and to the right will be large billboards advertising different shows.
Go to the next corner and turn right. You will see a theater on the left with a yellow sigh and banner. Go past that just a bit until you see orange awnings with white stripes on the left. 
Right in front of where those awnings start, there is a light pole on the sidewalk with a red rectangular sign on it. Touchdown is in the middle of that sign. Turn and follow traffic down the street.Continue straight. You will see orange and white barrels on the left with scaffolding. Turn left a the stop signs. You will have some scaffolding on your right. Turn left at the next intersection.  There will be a tan building on the left and a bike parking on the right. Go straight at the red light. On your right is 2 orange cones and one has a orange flag. Touchdown is sitting on top of the one without the flag.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and the lime green overhang to your right.  Go forward past the barriers on both sides.  Turn left at the intersection and you will have a long set of striped awnings on the right.  Follow the barriers on the left down to the next intersection and turn left again.
Once you do this same construction area will be on your right with more barriers, go forward.  A bit past the barriers and just past the little purple sign on a green pole to your right, you will find Touchdown hiding on a yellow cement base holding a yellow pole that has a red and white sign on it. Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic, and head to the nearest intersection.  Turn right, then take the next right.  Pass the palm tree sign on your right.  On the left is a hotel.  Stop where the hotel meets the store.  Between these two there is a black and red sign on the wall.  The bear is there. Turn as to be facing the same direction as traffic and see the traffic light directly ahead.
Turn right at this intersection onto the one way street.

Travel down this long block all the way to the traffic light and 
Turn Right.
You now see storefronts down the right side of the street with green and yellow signs.

Move ahead towards the next intersection paying attention to your right hand side.

Shortly before the intersection on the sidewalk to the right  see a rectangular black vertical post with a blue horizontal band near the top.

Touchdown is sitting on top of this post.




 Turn to where the fire truck is on your right. Go straight to the first intersection and turn left. Go straight again and turn left at the next intersection. Now go straight and you'll see a yellow van with graffiti on your right and a black car in front of it. The bear is on the headlight closest to you on the black car. Face the flow of traffic, with the garage opening on your right, go forward, make a left at the intersection and another left at the next intersection, with the red awning now on your right. 
Follow the line of parked bicycles and stop when you reach the beginning of the blue sign with white letters on your right. There is a red logo before the store name. Touchdown will be on that logo. From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  The ocean should be to your left. 

Walk down this road and keep going straight until you see an off-ramp on your right.  You will want to bear to your right here, so that you are in the two lanes to the right of the fork.  As you approach the offramp, you will see a small square green sign with white lettering, a number, and a diagonal white arrow on it.  Touchdown is sitting right on top of this sign.  Turn yourself so you are facing with traffic and the white barrier with yellow stripes is on your right.  Head down this street.  At first intersection past green wall on your left, turn left.  Head down this street.  Another green wall should be on your left.Turn left at next intersection past the wall.  Move down this street.  A rack of tires should be on your right and another green wall on your left.  Continue down this street past construction scaffolding on your right. Once you reach the end of the scaffolding, Touchdown will be on your left sitting on the sidewalk to the right side of a parking garage entrance. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and a yellow umbrella on your right. Go straight through the intersection.
You will see a park on your left, keep moving along it until the road splits two ways, with the left side winding.  Go left here and follow the winding road past the park.  When you're in the intersection just past the park continue straight and you should see a bunch of blue umbrellas on your right.

Head down to the next intersection and just to the right is a whole bunch of blue bikes.  Just in front of them is a potted plant.  Touchdown is in that planter. 1. Orient yourself to go with the flow of traffic. There should be a small tree with Christmas lights between two pots with shrubbery to your immediate right.

2. Begin moving forward until you reach an intersection. Take a left here.

3. On your left, there should now be a couple of large statues of torsos. Move forward until you reach the next intersection, and take another left.

4. There should be another statue on your left again near a few yellow and red food carts. Begin moving forward.

5. Stop when there's a black SUV that's behind a smaller yellow taxi parked to your immediate right. To your immediate left, there should be a white emergency vehicle with a horizontal, blue stripe. Touchdown is in the center of the door handle of the front passenger's door.

Good luck! :) Turn and walk in the same direction as traffic. Go right at the first intersection. You will see boarded up sections on the building ahead on the right. Go right at the next intersection. Notice a picture of coffee on the storefront sign to your right. Walk ahead. Pass by some outdoor dining under a red tent on your right. Watch for pumpkins after that ahead on your left. Go past them, just to the corner of a big green dumpster to your right. Turn back to look at the pumpkins and you will see Touchdown sitting on top of a brown barrel on the sidewalk in front of you. He is right in the middle on top of it.  Turn so you are facing the same direction the cars are driving on this road.  Follow this road until you reach the first intersection and turn right.  There should be a red brick building with green and red accent striping on your right now.  Follow this road and turn right at the first intersection you come to.  There will now be a store with a purple and orange stripped awning on your right.  Look to the left of the street and stop when you are beside the blue stairs that lead to a white door of a red brick building.  Touchdown is above that white door covering the white box sticking out. Move forward toward the stop signs. Turn right at the corner. Continue past the playground on the left. At the intersection, turn right. Go to the next corner and go right again. There will be a building on the right and roadway/bridge and water on the left. Move forward until you see an orange cone on the right near a tree. Touchdown is between the tree and the cone. Stand so the grass area is on your left. Go forward to the intersection and turn right (first you'll pass an opportunity to turn left). After turning right, go forward, passing through one intersection. Move forward a bit until you're just past the playground on your right. There is a small red rectangular structure just after the playground fence. Touchdown is on that small rectangle. Face the direction the traffic is going and take a left at the light. Go straight and take a left at the light. Go down the road and stop when you get to the grassy area on your right which is to the left of the pink/beige building. Touchdown is on the white square sign on the silver pole that is to the left of the pink/beige building. you will start at an intersection head down the street where there is construction fencing on sidewalk, in the direction of the traffic. keep heading straight down street. At first intersection make a right. before you get to next intersection on left side of the street you will see some street vendors with umbrellas set up by building with red awning. the target is on red awning above green and white umbrella. Go into the intersection that you are almost in. Make a right turn. You will be going the correct way down the one way street. On your right the corner store has lights around the windows. Go straight to the end of this long block.  When you get to the intersection make another right turn. On the right side is a brown building with horizontal slats on it. Go straight a short distance just past the phones on the right then stop. You should see some black barricades on the right side on the sidewalk and some black chairs and tables inside those. There is a large glass door right before those. Touchdown is on the handle of that glass door. Orient yourself so that the bridge is on your right and the chain link fence on your left. Move forward as if you are walking off the ramp and get yourself in the middle of the intersection. When you are there turn around so that the ramp is now on your right and the big bridge is on your left. Move forward and make a right at the dead-end street. There should now be a park on your left and a car lot on your right. Continue on and make a right at the first traffic light. the park is now behind you. Follow the traffic on the right lane, passing the bus stop on the right and stop before you reach the green awning on your right. You should be near a black entry fence with a green circle and two green triangles in the middle of it. It will be to the right of the wooden potted plants. Touchdown is on the center of that green circle Orient yourself so that a red brick building is ahead of you on the right and a black metals and glass store is on your left. Continue straight through the intersection and onto the one way street. At the end of the block, turn left. Turn left again at the next intersection, using the second left turn so that you are moving with traffic, not against it. After turning, there will be a bank on your right and the median with the green bike lane on your left. Continue down the street until the green scaffolding starts on your right. There is a green mailbox with graffiti on it underneath the scaffolding. Touchdown is on top of the mailbox.  Orient yourself so you are facing in the same direction as the parked cars. Take a right at this first intersection you see. Move forward a short time and take the very next right. From here, move through one intersection and turn right yet again at the next. Follow the road around the bend. Touchdown is just after the bend, sitting at the base of a red door with yellow graffiti above him. Turn so the plaza and the rental bikes are on your left.  Go forward to the intersection just ahead and turn right.  
You'll now have a building that is all windows on your right, with some green signs on the windows.  Go one sort block to the next intersection, and turn right again.
On this block you'll have food carts on both sides of the street (red and yellow umbrellas on the left).  This is a long block, and it's your target block.  Go past all the scaffolding on the left side, then past scaffolding (blue on top) on the right side.  After the scaffolding, there's a hotel with a black awning on your left side, and also lots of flags on both sides of the street.  
Continue forward until you're past all of the flags.  You'll see scaffolding on the right side again. In the center of the scaffolding on the right is a doorway with a big arched window over it, and ornate carving in the stone over the window.  The bear is in the center of the arched window over the door.
 Go in the same direction as the parked bulldozer. Turn right at the first intersection. Basketball courts will be on your left. Keep straight at the right turn only. A soccer park will be on the left. Turn right at the next right turn only, down a one way street. Stop before the open garage door to the right. Look on the building to the right there is a security camera inside a orange metal box. Touchdown is sitting on the security camera inside the orange metal box. Turn and face in the direction that puts the sidewalk and building on the right and a grassy median on the left. Continue straight, and pass through a lighted intersection. At the next lighted traffic signal, there is a break in the median on your left.  You will want to make a left U-turn at this break in the road. After you make the turn and start heading back in the direction you came from, on the left side of the road there is a row of white with yellow striped posts proceed straight through the traffic signal at the next traffic light. There will be two roads that connect to the other side of the traffic. When you approach the first one start to pass it, there is a large green pole on the edge of a raised bricked section of the median. The Touchdown is at the base of this pole.  Face in the direction traffic is moving.  Move forward past the two bicycles chained to a post on your right.  Continue in the same direction, passing through the next intersection.  You will pass a building on your right with large balconies at each level.  Continue in the same direction until you are approaching the next intersection.  Just before the intersection there will be a green box on your left next to a red newspaper box.  Touchdown is on the graffiti in the middle of the red box. Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic, and head to the nearest intersection.  Turn left.  Take the 3rd left you can take.   Turn and look left.  You will see one light post (Not in the planter).  Move forward to the 3rd post (Including that first one).  The bear is at the bottom in that box part.   Orientate yourself so that the river is to your right and proceed straight ahead, there will be no turns on this route. Pass  through the next intersection and notice the white building ahead and to the left with the large black sign on the side, continue along passed this building. 
You will pass a few small construction areas to your right side, continue going ahead. at the next traffic light see the  fenced in ball field ahead to the left, continue forward though the intersection.

After passing through the intersection stop parallel to the first tree you see on your left hand side, Touchdown is at the base of this tree. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Turn right at the next intersection.  If you're in the right place you'll see a painted section on the left that separates the bike lane from the regular lanes.
You should see scaffolding ahead on the right.
Turn right at the next intersection, you'll see a rot iron fence on the right. Go forward.  Just past the fence you should a yellow window at ground level.  Touchdown is on this window.

 Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Head to the nearest intersection.  Go through this intersection.  There will be rental bikes on your left.  Continue to the next intersection.  Stop while you are in the crosswalk before you enter the intersection.  Look left.  There is a silver bike, the bear is on the seat.   Align yourself so that the blue bikes are on your left, and head up to the intersection to make a right.

You'll make another right shortly after at the next intersection, where you should see a red lane on your right, and cut off shortly on your left. Head to the next intersection, and make a right but stop.

Across the street on the corner should be a silver tipped fire hydrant between two poles. Touchdown is sitting on the tip of the fire hydrant. Orient yourself with traffic on the one way street. At the end of the block, turn left. Turn left again at the next intersection. There is a cafe on the right and an empty building for lease on the left. At the end of this block, turn left and then stop immediately while you are still in the intersection. Without turning your view, across the street is a parked delivery van with a bicycle tied to a post behind it. Touchdown is on the rear wheel of the bicycle.  Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic you should see several rows of trees on the right and left in front of you. Continue forward to the next intersection and take a right. You should see a building with red signs on the left and a green mailbox to the right.  continue forward to the next intersection and take another right. You should see a Subway entrance on the right and a white truck with several traffic cones on the ground to your left. Continue down this road passing the row of school buses and the building with the red awning on the right. Look for a yellow and red traffic cone on the right side of the road. Stop when you are in line with this traffic cone.  Turn to your right and click the base of the traffic cone to find touchdown. Turn and go in the direction with the traffic. Bridge to the left. Turn left at intersection and go under the bridge. Turn left at the red and white octagon sign. Now the bridge is on the left. Stop in the middle of the next intersection. On the right is a fire hydrant with a white cap. Touchdown is on top. Follow the flow of traffic, with the pole that has the flowers, on your right, passing the scaffolding and stop after you pass the traffic light. You will be in the center of the intersection. There will be a white building with black framed windows to your left and a beige building with tall glass windows on your right. Touchdown will be on your right, on top of the orange traffic cone that is near the crosswalk sign. Follow traffic and go to the end of the block, and through the intersection, stopping before you reach the crosswalk on the other side.

Ahead and to your left is a hydrant with a silver cap, atop which Touchdown sits. Use the right arrow to move into the intersection and then proceed straight through it. The mail truck will be on your right next to a pizza place and a school playground on your left. Go straight through one intersection. Just past this intersection, there's a blue bus lane sign above the right most lane (the red lane). Touchdown is on the downward-pointing arrow on the sign.  You're going to be going against the flow of traffic. You should see a big white truck as you do this and a green motorcycle to your right. Go to the intersection and take a right. You should see a pizza building to the right and a yellow car in front of you. Keep following this road until you get to the next intersection and then take a right. You will be going against traffic again. You will see the blue bikes on the left now. You can see an orange cone. The top of that code is your touchdown.  Turn so the green construction is on your right and you can follow the flow of traffic. Travel to the first intersection and turn right.  Proceed down this street following the green construction scaffolding on your right and turn right when it ends at the intersection.  Follow this road and you will come to a large intersection.  Go into the middle and stop just before you get to the green boulevard in the middle.  Look to your left and there is a white sign in the green and yellow bushes near the black iron fence.  Touchdown is sitting in the middle of that sign, Turn so the blue murals are on your right and you're going with the flow of traffic on this one-way street.  Go forward until you reach an intersection, and turn left.  You'll now be between red brick apartment buildings - there are green and blue dumpsters on the right (near the building).  This is a long block, and you're going most of the way down it.  You'll pass a church on the right, and after that you'll pass a red and blue playground.  After the playground is an area closed off by a green fence (there's an orange roof visible over the fence).  After the green fence is a little park/garden area with some benches.  Stop when you've passed that little garden and are right next to a driveway area with two dumpsters.  You'll be even with the blue dumpster that is a little farther away from you.  The bear is on top of the blue dumpster. Go with the flow of traffic. The road will end at an intersection, turn right there. Take this road with the flow of traffic until you can make a right, and turn there. Go straight (you will have a reddish bus lane to your right). Keep going past some walls of graffiti, and pass the 3-way intersection. Just past that corner, there is a stoop to your left, with purple pots of flowers. Touchdown is at the top of these stairs, in front of the doors. Follow the direction of all the park vehicles till you arrive at an intersection consisting of two yellow traffic signs on the left and right side. Make a right turn at the intersection and continue moving forward till you reach an intersection in which you want to make a right turn into a one way alley. Follow the alley till you reach a building with a red and white awning extending out on your left. There should be two windows above the awning. The touchdown is in the center of the left window. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, with the red lane on your right. Head up to the intersection, and make the first right.

Head down this smaller street to the first intersection, to make another right.

You'll want to head in to the next intersection, and there should be a white camper on your right with three traffic cones on the left side of it. Touchdown is in the middle cone on the left side of the camper. Orient your self so the the walls with graffiti are to you left. Go forward and make a right at the intersection with the green fence on your right  Pass the first intersection and stay to the right in order to go with the curve, passing the brown statue and two green trash bins on your left. Follow the traffic, passing the yellow signs with black arrows and stop before you reach the overpass. Touchdown is on the yellow rectangular sign that is below the yellow diamond sign on your right. Turn so your facing the intersection. There should be a building with a blue storefront on your left. Move into the intersection and take a left. Go up the block, going straight through the first intersection you come to. On your right, there should be a small park . Stop when you reach the far end of the park. There should be a red and white sign on a post nearly right in front of you. 

Touchdown is on top of the red and white sign.  Turn so the T Mobile store is on your left. Go one block and turn left, there should be a Cohens on your right.  Travel about 3/4 of a block. There should be an open truck on your right along with a couple pallets of two liter bottles.  On the open truck, there is a flap that says Franks Truck. The touchdown is on the word Franks.  Position yourself so you're moving with the flow of traffic. A building with red doors will be on your left. 

Go to the first intersection and turn right. At the next intersection you come to, turn right again. A building with black awnings and black and gold signs will be on your left and a parking meter will be on your right. 

Go straight through the three-way intersection that does not have lights. You'll be walking along a park with wrought iron fencing on your left. Stop just before the fencing and park end. Look to your right and you'll see glass doors with a long canopy that extends out on the sidewalk. There are large potted plants on either side of the door. Touch down is sitting right in the middle of the rug under the canopy. 
 Turn around and align yourself with the red sedan to your left in front of you.  You'll come to a 4 way cross, you want to go right, up  the street with the yellow ladder against the scaffolding.

Take a right at the next intersection, then a final right. Head in to the first intersection, in front of you to your left there should be a green trash bin , close to the green fence. Touchdown is on top of the trash bin. Orient yourself so that there is a playground on your right and green scaffolding on your left.  Travel straight down the street and straight through the first traffic light.  When you come to the next traffic light, turn right.  After you have turned, travel straight through the first traffic light you come to.  As you approach the next stop light, you will see a green store banner on your left near the intersection.  Just before the green store banner is a white with red store banner.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the far right corner of the white with red banner.  Turn to go with traffic flow. Go straight down this long block to the next corner. You'll know you're going in the right direction if you see scaffolding to your left. Keep going straight. Turn right after the long block. There will be orange barrels on the right of you when you turn. 

Go straight through the first intersection. Go through the next intersection and stop. To your left a diamond shaped orange sign. Touchdown is in the center of that sign. Turn to go with traffic flow. Go through 2 intersections. At the third turn right. 
Still going with traffic, watch the flags on the right and when you reach the 7th flag on the right, it will be an American flag. Touchdown is on the very top of the flag pole that's reaching out. Face the nearest intersection, with the red awning on your right and quickly make a left. Go down the street with the scaffolding to your right, passing the blue bike rental area on your right and make your last left at the first intersection. With the green bike lane on your left, continue and stop before passing the first intersection. On your right, at the crosswalk near the white building, there will be a green garbage can, Touchdown will be on top of it. Face the direction traffic is going.. You should see a truck with trees in it on your left.

At the first intersection, turn left.  You'll see the back of a blue bus up ahead.

Turn left at the next intersection and you should see white vans on the sides and a bluish gray SUV ahead.

Go forward until you get to a white truck on the left and have some fencing wrapped in a green material on your right.

Directly on your right you should see a yellow railing.  Touchdown is at the base of the yellow rail. Go down the street in the same direction as the parked cars.  Turn right at the first corner.  Go down this street, past piles of garbage bags on the left sidewalk, and straight thru the first intersection.  Just as you get into the next block you should see a yellow newpaper box on the left.  you should see two grey planter boxes in front of open black fencing.  Attached to the bottom of a section of the black wired fencing is a small red lopsided sign.  Touchdown bear is on the sidewalk right in front of the red sign. Orient yourself so the building with the green bottom and tan top is ahead on your right. Go straight down that road. At the next intersection, go right. A one way street in the direction of traffic. Coming to a yellow storefront ahead on the right, stop before getting to it. Turn to the left side of the street and stand just right of a narrow tan brick building with a courtyard surrounded by iron fences. Touchdown is sitting on the very top of the light to the right of the door on this building.  Align yourself with the flow of traffic, and make a left at the first intersection. Ignore the first intersection on this road, straight through the second, and shortly after make a left at the third intersection.

Head down this road just a few steps. Just past the first red SUV on your right. You should be in front of a silver sedan with one silver tire and one black tire. Touchdown is on the silver of the back tire. Turn around until you are facing with traffic, then go forward to the end of the block.  You'll see a building across the street with a giant blue section. Take a left, and go forward past the next intersection. You will be going against the flow of traffic, so that might not be easy, but go forward until you're roughly in the next intersection, there will be a building across the street on your left with a cell phone on it. Turn left here, and walk past this building. On the right, there will be stores, one of which has a poster on the door with bubbles and a red egg thing in the center. Touchdown is on that egg. Orient yourself so that the umbrellas are to the right. Go straight and take a right at the first intersection. At the next intersection there should be an old-fashioned store to the left. There is also a dinosaur mural to the right. Touchdown is on the back of the dinosaur. Move forward along in the same direction as traffic.  Turn left at the lights.  Go straigh down this long block and stop in the middle of the intersection.  There should be some scaffolding on the buildings on the right side, and a shiny modern building on the opposite corner on the left.  Touchdown bear is at the base of the grey light post on the corner with the new shiny building.   Move with the flow of traffic until you reach the dead end, and turn right. Pass the building with curved archways above the windows on your left. At the next intersection, turn right again. Now move with traffic until on your right is a yellow awning followed by 2 red awnings. Touchdown is in the middle of the yellow awning. Orient yourself so you are going the same way as the traffic.  Walk forward  to the street on your left, and turn down it.  It will involve overshooting the street a touch, and then going backwards to your left.  You made it to the correct street if you see a row of blue rental bicycles on your left up ahead.  Go down to the intersection just past the bikes and turn left.  Go up to the next intersection and turn left again.  One last time, go to the intersection and turn left.  Begin walking up this street.  There are many red columns in front of buildings on your left.  There is an intersection in front of you, go up to it but stop before entering it.  On your left side, next to the pole that has the pedestrian crosswalk sign is a bright yellow newspaper bin.  Touchdown is sitting on the top of the newspaper bin. From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing oncoming traffic, and see a crosswalk directly in front of you.  To your left, you should see large white posters behind windows in a shop front.  Take a step toward those windows, and they will be replaced by red posters with yellow lettering.  Turn to your left, and walk down the narrow street, so that the windows and posters will be on your right as you pass.  If you are on the right path, you will soon pass a yellow canopy with black letters hanging over a small storefront on your right.  

When you see this yellow canopy, just keep moving forward until you come to a four-way intersection.  Ignore the first side street you see on your left (where there should be a parked truck with cartoon pigs painted on it).  Just move straight past that street, keeping the truck on your left, until you come to that four-way intersection.  

Stop in the middle of the intersection and turn to your right.  You should be facing down a wide one-way street with a green bike lane on the far left.  Walk down this street and then stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to.  

Turn to your right in the intersection.  You should be looking down a narrow street with windows and yellow trim on the left and dark signs with yellow/gold lettering on the right.  Walk down the street between these two shops.  

Look to your left as you move forward.  You should see a dark colored fire hydrant with two gray parts.  On the right, opposite this hydrant is a dull grayish-blue door with a window in the middle of its face, and 3 numbers (barely) visible on the window above the door.  

Walk past the hydrant and the door, and look for five trash cans on the right-hand sidewalk.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the first of these cans, the one without a lid. Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic. There will be a wall covered in graffiti on your left. Go straight at the first intersection with a traffic signal.  You should see a brick wall to your left, and a store with blue, periwinkle, and green signs above the windows to your right. Keep going straight. Shortly before you reach your destination, you will pass a parking lot full of buses on your right. Go a few more steps. On your left, you should see an open gate with a bunch of white signs all around. There is also one yellow and black sign attached to an orange stick sitting on the sidewalk next to the gate.  Touchdown is in the middle of the yellow sign. Orient yourself with the cones to your right. Go straight past the first intersection. Go past the second intersection which has a hanging wire on the traffic light. Go past the third intersection which has a huge brick building to the right. Take a left at the following intersection with all the construction. Go straight and past the first intersection. There should be two lights on the barriers to the left. Touchdown is on the second light. Stand so you are facing the close intersection and moving with traffic. Go forward into the intersection and turn right. Now you should have a chain link fence on your left. Move forward past a bus stop on your right. At the next light, turn right again.
Now there are red awnings on your left, over a blue brick building. Move ahead with traffic down this tree-lined street. At the next intersection, turn right again. Now there is a gated area with trees on your right. Move forward to the next intersection and stop in the center of it. Ahead on your left is a yellow newspaper stand. Touchdown is on top of that stand. With the orange and white construction wall to your left, go with traffic. Go left at the intersection. Go left again at the next intersection. The storefront on your left is mirrored. Down this road, see a bridge overpass and almost to it, notice a large metal piece of artwork on the right. Stop at the beginning of it and turn to face it. Touchdown is on top of the potted green shrub to the left of the doors in front of you. Go through the light with traffic, and the grey awnings and red and white checkered flag on your left, to the next light, and take a right. Take another right at the light thereafter. 

Pass the first red awning on your right, and stop in front of the shop with the next one.  It has a narrow, tall rolling metal door, to the left of the glass doors of the grey brick building and to the right of the small window, also with a metal roll down protector.  Above and to the right of the roll down door is a light. Touchdown is atop it. Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Go forward to the intersection, and turn right. Go to the next intersection. Just before entering it, on your left is a restaurant with a bright red and white sign. Touchdown is in the center (in the middle of a white circle). Go with traffic flow to the intersection and turn right. 
Go all the way to the next intersection you come to and turn right again.
Go to the next intersection and turn right again. Scaffolding will be on your left. 
To the right is a black light pole on the sidewalk. Touchdown is at the base of that light pole on the sidewalk. Orient yourself and follow the direction of the cars, make a left at the first intersection, with the green awnings on your left, and make a left at the next light. Pass the scaffolding on your right and stop when it ends and before you reach the red building on your right. Touchdown will be at the bottom of the black door that is at the top of the steps of that red building. Hello there!

1. Begin by turning to the right until you're facing the intersection. There should be a store with a red, yellow, and white awning to your right and a brick building with a green overhang to your left.

2. Begin moving forward. Your destination is straight down this road, so you won't need to turn. You'll pass through two intersections, before heading underneath an overpass.

3. After that, you'll come across a divided street where you'll need to pass through two intersections almost one after the other. At this point, there should be a tall fenced-in brick building with small windows to your right. To your left should be a school with a visible playground. Your destination is close.

4. While moving down this street, keep an eye on the two parked yellow buses to the left. Get as close to the second one as possible. When you see that the first red octagon sign on the second bus (the one closer to the front of the bus) is directly to your left, stop. Touchdown is in the very center of this sign.

Good luck! :) Turn so that you are traveling with the flow of traffic and go to the first intersection, turn right at the intersection and go to the next intersection take another right and follow almost to the next intersection, you will know your in the right place when you see a row of metal seating to your right, there is a man sitting on the first seat touchdown is by his foot that is closest to the small wall.  Align yourself against the flow of traffic of the parked cars. Ignore the first left turn, and head down   until you get three arrows going back Choose the right most arrow and continue forward to the right. Ignore the first left turn ahead, and make a right turn, and then choose the top left arrow to be put on the spot to find Touchdown. To your right, you should see a blue postal box. Touchdown is sitting on the logo of the postal box. Orient yourself so the construction is on your left and you're travelling in the same direction as the traffic.  Walk up to the next intersection and turn right.  Walk straight down this road, through 2 intersections.  At the third intersection, take a right.   On your right will be a restaurant with outdoor seating and a red awning.  Past that on your left is a white brick building with a blue awning and blue doors.  In front of that building is a parked silver moped.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the moped seat. Follow the flow of traffic to the next intersection.  Turn right.  Continue, take next right.  Continue to next intersection.  In the middle of the intersection, you will find a man on a motorcycle with a backpack.  There is a logo of a motorcycle on the backpack.  The bear is there. Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street.  Go forward until you reach an intersection, and turn right.  This new block is very short.  Go to the other end of this block, and stop just before you actually walk into the intersection (you're standing on the crosswalk).  On the corner to your left, there is a trash can.  The bear is on top of the trash can. Position yourself so the construction board is on your right side. Go to that intersection in front of you. Then turn right. 
Now there are some scaffolding on your right. Go straight till you reach next intersection. Turn right. You will see a trash can and mailbox on the right. 
Go straight pass the first intersection (a store with white sign and blue letters on the right side), look ahead and you will see on the right side there is a red sign with 6 white letter. Go to that sign. Then continue straight. When you pass the tan building with black doors on your right, there will be a store with yellow awning and a red chair in front of it. The touch down is sitting in the middle on that chair. 
 orient yourself with the flow of traffic, and head down to the first intersection. Make a right here, and continue down.

Ignore the first intersection, and down one step before the next intersection. On your left, you should see a brightly colored box with graffiti, a light pole to its right, and a green trash can on the corner, Touchdown is on top of the orange box. Turn and go with the flow of traffic to the first traffic light and turn right.Go to the next traffic light and turn right again. About 3/4 of the way down this street you will see on your right a store that sells books,dvds,cds,and games. in the center of the doors on the ground you will find Touchdown Turn so your back is to the intersection you are right next to. You will be going the correct way down this one way street. Go all the way to the end of the block. As you go you'll see a heart painted on a wall on the left side. When you reach the intersection make a left turn. After you have turned you will see a yellow dumpster ahead on the left. Go one block. Turn left. Once you are turned there is a white building on the right and a building with a red awning on the left. Go straight. You won't get all the way to the end of this street.  You will see a blue store front with a gate down on the right as you go. On the right you'll see a small red awning or overhand over a doorway on a red building. You are almost there. Keep looking on the right and go past the red buildings (in the section of red buildings that has a red awning)  until you get to a building that is kind of yellow next to one that is white. The yellow one has olive green trim. The white building has one of the doors open. Touchdown is on the ground in that doorway. When you begin, you'll  be moving with the flow of traffic. A pile of trash bags will be on the corner to your right. Go straight through the first traffic lights and when you get to the second intersection, turn left. After you turn, you'll see a business on your right with large windows and bright blue signs. 

At the next intersection you get to, turn left again. You'll immediately see a red flag hanging from a pole extending from the building on your left. Walk towards that. Touchdown will be at the very tip of the pole that the flag is hanging from.  Put the building on your right, then take the first right.  After you officially turn, stop.  On the right a little bit ahead is a fire hydrant.  The bear is on top. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Turn right at the first intersection.  You should see a green awning on your right.
You should see scaffolding ahead on both sides of you.
Turn right at the first intersection and right again at the next one.
You should see a green awning on your left.
You will pass a red awning on your right.
Just before the scaffolding on the right, you should see a wooden door at the top of some steps to the right of a double black door.  Stop next to the door with the steps and you will find Touchdown hiding on the light above that door. Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Take the first left, then the next left.   Follow this road for a while.  On the left you will find a store with a blue overhang and a red double door.  There is an orange rectangle on the right door, the bear is in it. Turn and follow the flow of traffic.  Take your first right, then the next right (The road will turn you).    Continue past the concrete barrier on the left, then into the next one (Has a yellow tip).  Look right.  Stop in front of all of the trash bags.  The bear is on the blue thing. Hello, please orient yourself facing the flow of traffic. You will see a red brick building on your left. There will be a white stone building on your right. 

Go straight on this path. You will pass some scaffolding on your right side. After that, a right turn will be available. Please do not take this turn. 

Continue straight until you reach the first intersection. Turn right. 

Move forward while keeping an eye on the left side. There are many white vehicles and trucks parked on the left side of this street. Stop when you pass the last white truck. It has a small blue stripe near the rear wheel.

Touchdown is on the rear wheel of the white truck. The truck is next to a bright yellow pole. Good luck! Turn to face the same direction traffic is driving on this road.  The green and white store will be on your left.  Travel forward and turn right at the first intersection.  A store with a yellow sign will be on your left.  Follow this road to the next intersection and turn right.  You'l see a blue sign over the road here, drive under the sign and then proceed to the intersection.  Stop when you enter the intersection and look to your right.  There is a white chalkboard sign under a red umbrella.  Touchdown is in the exact middle of the black rectangle of that white sign. Go into the nearest intersection and turn right. Turn right at the next intersection. An Asian fruit market will be on the corner. Turn right at the intersection with the double stop signs. Turn right again at the next intersection. Stop when you can see school painted in the street in front of you and directly to your right is a fire hydrant with a red cap. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant.  Follow traffic down the street with the building that is light brown on the top and dark brown on the bottom. Continue pass the line of construction barriers on the left. Keep going past the trees on the right to the intersection and turn left. Continue just past the next intersection. There will be a red square pole on the right in the sidewalk that Touchdown is on top of. The building with a TON of steps should be on your left. Go straight passing the first intersection. At the next intersection a building on your right will have some squiggly lines on the outside. Turn right at this intersection so now the squiggly lines are on your left. Go straight, pass the bus stop on your right and keep going. You will see two American flags on your right across from a convenience store with a red seven on the sign on the left of the street. Go right past this convenience store and right next to it is a shoe store. The shoe stores sign has white letters and a star. Touchdown will be directly on the star.  Turn and follow with the traffic. Blue awnings on the right. Turn left at the next intersection. Go straight thru the next intersection. Turn left at the next intersection. There is bike parking on the right. Touchdown is on the seat of the first bike.  Go with the flow of traffic.  Go all the way down the street to the intersection and turn right.  There will be a restaurant with a yellow awning on your right.  Go to the next intersection and turn right.  You will be going down a street with tall trees on either side.  As you go down this street, you'll see a huge metal garage door on your left.  Pass this door, then watch for a maroon awning on your right. pass this awning, then look for an arched doorway on the left that has a white stripe around it.   Go past this arched doorway and stop.  Turn 90 degrees to your left and look down.  There is a fire hydrant painted black on the sidewalk.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this fire hydrant.   Look for the walkway the is high between two building and go in this direction. Green scaffolding will be on the left. Turn left at the first intersection. Go straight at the next intersection. Look left at the row of bikes. Stop next to the two green trash cans next to each other, also next to a planter. Touchdown is sitting at the opening of the first trash can. Turn and go in the direction that places a body of water to your left. As soon as you are able to get in the right lane, do so, and leave the main highway. You will see a V in the road, and a blue sign at the corner of it with a white arrow. Follow the arrow, keeping right. You should be going down a hill off the bridge. At the bottom of the hill, enter traffic again. Just before the upcoming intersection, see a green sign on your left with a yellow diamond on it. Go just past it, and you will find that you can easily turn around and walk toward the sidewalk, now on your left. Just after heading to the sidewalk, stop.  You should be in the parking lane. You are standing in front of a tall metal post with a red sign on it. Touchdown is sitting on top of the white arrows painted on the sign, in the middle of it.  Turn around so you are facing the same direction in which the cars on the one way are facing. Move down the street for about two blocks -- turn right at the 2nd street you'll see (the first is a one way such that if you turned right you'd be going the wrong way). Continue down the cobblestone road until the first intersection, where you'll see a stop sign. Turn right at the stop sign. Continue down that street, through one stop sign, until you get to a light at the end of the street after a large brick building on your right. Turn right at this light. A little ways down the street, just before a black awning on the right side of the street, there is a tall blue, white, and somewhat red sign with a bus logo on it. Touchdown is sitting on that sign. Turn to where you're going with the traffic. Go straight and turn left at the first intersection. You should now see a truck with graffiti on your right

Go straight all the way down this street and turn left at the intersection. You'll now see a little ahead of you a big white truck parked on the right. Go straight until this right beside you. The touchdown is  in the middle of the back tire of the truck. Go with the flow of traffic to the corner and turn right. When you turn, scaffolding is on your right and trees in the median on your left. 

Go to the next corner and turn right. You are going with traffic flow. 
Go to the next corner and turn right. When you turn the park is on your left, orange and white barricades on your right.
Go to the next corner and turn right. Still going with traffic flow, move forward until you see many planters all lined up on the right. Some are round, some are rectangle shaped. 
Touchdown is on top of the plant in the very first one in that row, in front of the store with glass windows and brown awning. There's a tree in front of it close to the road.


 Follow traffic, where an orange construction barrier is ahead to the left, and go to the light. Go right and through the next light, stopping on the crosswalk on the other side.

Touchdown is atop the grey square thin metal parking meter with the blue band around the top ahead and to the left. Turn so that you are facing the same way as the white truck.  Cross the intersection and continue forward.  At the next intersection stop in the middle.  Look to the left side.  There is a red and orange mail/magazine box.  The bear is on top of the orange one.   Orient so the bridge is to your left and the park to your right and follow the street through past two intersections (the second only going to the right). At the third intersection, go left, under the bridge. When you reach the next intersection, just enter it and go slightly left down the street. You should have the first of the huge bridge pillars on your left. The touchdown is directly at its base, near the bush. Turn so you'll be going with the flow of traffic on this one-way street.  Go straight until you reach an intersection, then turn right.  Go one very short block to an intersection, and turn right again.  You'll be on a residential street without a lot of landmarks. Watch for awnings over the sidewalk on the right (the kind that go from the door straight out over the sidewalk).  You'll pass two of these black awnings on the right as you go down the block.  After the second awning, look to the left and you'll come to some construction scaffolding.  Stop when you're even with the port-a-potty of the construction site.  The bear is on top of the port-a-potty. Turn yourself so that you see a red lane on the right side of the road. Go straight until you get to the next intersection. Turn left. Now you should see a business with an orange awning on your right and a business with a bright red and blue sign on your left. Go straight.  Just before you get to the next intersection, you should see a fenced in playground on your left. You must take a right at this intersection, but go no further after you make the turn. On the corner across the street diagonally from the playground, you should see a phone booth and a yellow newspaper box.  To the left of that is a silver traffic light pole with a green rectangular box attached to it.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the green box. Begin down the street where bicycles are parked to the right. Go left at the first intersection. Continue past the next corner, going past the blue flags on the lampposts on the right. At the next intersection, turn left. Go past the fenced area on the right. When you are between the red block building on the left and white building with black fencing on the left, look for Touchdown sitting on the ground in front of a row of trash cans just beyond the white fenced wall on the right. Go straight with the plastic barricades to your left. Take a left at the intersection with two flat buildings in front of you. Take a left when you see a nondescript gray building to your left.  Go straight until you see a door with a trellis like appearance to your right and a green mailbox. Touchdown is on top of the latter. Going with the flow of traffic, take a left at the first intersection.  You'll take a left at the next intersection.  You'll see American flags hanging on the left side. Just continue straight. Slow down when you get to the blue bikes on your left hand side.  Touchdown is hiding at the top of the first trashcan behind the bikes about midway through. Follow traffic to the light and go right, and go right again at the next light, and again at the light at the end of the long block following that one.

Stop before passing the small stone circle on the fence to your right.  Touchdown is atop the neon yellow triangular sign with black people silhouettes in front of and to your right. Hello. Please orient yourself with the flow of traffic. You will be facing an intersection. To your left, there will be a white stone building with green awnings. To your right will be a gray and white building.

Enter the four-way intersection straight ahead. Continue straight through it.

Go straight until you reach the next four-way intersection. Turn left.

There will be scaffolding with green awning to your right side. To your left side, there will be a tall dark wall with a few yellow-striped cement barricades.

Go straight on this path until you reach the next four-way intersection. Turn left again. 

When you reach the next four-way intersection, slow down. Go straight through it while watching the right side. Move forward slightly. You will see two blue mailboxes and a green trashcan outside a black building. 

Please stop when you are standing equal with the green trashcan and the blue mailboxes. Touchdown will be on top of the green trashcan. Good luck! Turn away from the intersection so you've got orange and white barriers on your right. Walk forward with traffic for two blocks.

On the second intersection you come to, turn right. There will be a food vending cart on your left followed by a green mailbox. Walk forward until you see orange temporary barriers on the street next to a green wall blocking a construction site on your right.

After the green wall, you'll see  a beige brick building. There will be a small shop and then a larger entrance next to it. The entrance has black marble around it. Touchdown is at the base of the black marble to the left of the doors. Position yourself in such a way that the big parking construction is behind you and then go forward. Reach an intersection and turn left and keep walking. Reach another intersection and again turn left and keep walking. There should be a bus stop to your left as you walk, and shortly after a parking lot again to your left. Reach another intersection and again turn left and keep walking. Walk until you reach another intersection and then stop right in the middle of it. Touchdown is sitting on top of the orange newspaper stand to your left. Align yourself against the flow of traffic, with the opposite flow of traffic on your right. Head all the way up until you get the option to take an exit ramp to your left. Turn yourself around after the turn and take the ramp down. Keep left at the choice to go left or right. Stop when you're under the bridge ahead a few steps. To your right behind the fence on the ground, should be a construction barrel next to some grass. Touchdown is on top of the barrel. Follow the cars to the first intersection and turn left. When you reach the next intersection, turn left again. Stop immediately after you pass the food cart on the left. There is a red sign ahead of you to the left. Touchdown is in the middle of the sign. From your starting point, please turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the parked cars on your street.  There should be an intersection right in front of you.  Walk forward into the middle of this intersection, and turn right.  You should now be facing the same direction as the cars on a one-way street, and you should see a section of red-painted road surface just in front of you to your left.  Walk up this road until you come to an intersection.  

Stop and turn right at the four-way intersection.  You should be looking down a one-lane road with parked cars on both sides.  On your right up ahead should be some yellow and red umbrellas.  Walk up this lane for a short distance.  You are almost there, so keep an eye on your surroundings.  

Look on your left for a vertical gray post with a small blue-and-white sign.  Walk just past that post, and then stop right after you pass an identical post on your right.  Just up ahead of you, on the right-hand sidewalk, is some scaffolding with a green canopy.  There is a white banner with black lettering on this canopy.  

Touchdown is sitting right on top of the middle of the top edge of this banner.

 Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic with a intersection close by.  Turn right at the intersection.  You should see a basketball court and a field off to the left after you turn.
Turn right at the next intersection and you will see stacks of pallets on the right side of the street.
Go forward to the next intersection and just go forward until you are in the intersection with orange barriers in front of you and portable toilets to the left.
Touchdown is in the middle of the front center orange barrier. You are almost in the intersection you need to turn at. The road you want to go down will have the median with foliage to your left and scaffolding to your right. Go past the scaffolding, down to the next corner and turn left. Go straight through the immediate intersection choice so you go down the narrow road with traffic flow and the blue store with orange trim will remain on your left. 

Go down this road, passing a bright blue building on your left and construction cones on your right. When you get to the corner there are blue rental bikes on the left. Turn left at that corner. 

Go with traffic flow down this road, through the first intersection. Some trees line the left side of the street now. Just beyond the third tree is a bicycle parked next to a sign post. Touchdown is on the seat of the bicycle. Turn so you are facing the same direction as traffic and you have a four way intersection in front of you. Walk forward through that intersection and down one block. At the next intersection, turn right. Walk down the street past the delivery truck parked on the right. Go through that first intersection to the stop sign at the end of the block. Turn right so you have the park at your left. Walk down to the end of the block. At that intersection, look back to the left towards the park. You will see two sets of three trash cans. Touchdown is on top of the rightmost trash can with a green bag lining it. Align yourself with the flow of traffic and head up to the first intersection to take a right. You'll pass some trash bags and boxes on your left as you pass up this intersection. Make another right, then a final right at the next two intersections.  You'll see a row of bushes and flowers right before the next intersection. Touchdown is on the right valve, to the left of the first bush in this row. Turn and face the direction of the traffic, with the scaffolding on your right. Go forward, make a right at the first intersection, and then another right at the first traffic light, where you see the two flags in front of you on your right. Go forward and stop when you see the second flag by the white balls on the building to your right. Touchdown is on the blue part of the flag. Turn so your facing the flow of traffic. You will see a stoplight just ahead. Move into the intersection and take a right. Go up the street to the next intersection, and take another right. You will pass some construction on your right, come into another intersection. Go straight through this one. There should be green fencing on both sides of you. A couple steps in, you should see some faint graffiti on the fence on your right. On the sidewalk  in front of it, you will see two green dots of paint. Touchdown is on the dots Turn yourself so you'll be going in the same direction as all the vehicles here.  Go to the intersection (traffic light), and turn right. Go straight through the first intersection you come to, and on your left side, look at the fourth storefront from the intersection you just passed.  It's a grocery market.  There are fruits in a set of stands out in front of the market. There is a yellow sign hanging in the window above all that fruit.  The bear is in the center of the yellow sign. Turn so that you can see an intersection with stop lights and a bridge over the street. 
Go straight, passing under the bridge. Continue going straight. You will go through another intersection with traffic lights and past a playground with blue slides on your left. Keep going straight until you come to the next intersection with traffic lights.  There is a red brick building on your right. On your left there is a store with a red awning and a store with a green awning. Between the two stores is a black door. Touchdown is peeking out the window in that door! With the temporary wall to your right, go straight past the barrels and awning. Take a left at the next intersection. At the next intersection there is construction and a drab building ahead. Take another left. Go straight down the street. There is more construction. There is a grey building to the right with two lamps and an arched window. It is behind an orange barrel on the road. Touchdown is in the arched window. Orient yourself against traffic and proceed. Turn left at the first intersection. Turn left at the second as well, barely leaving the intersection. A bus station on the left shows skeletons holding hands. Touchdown is on their hands. Follow traffic, with the scaffolding to your right, and go to the light. Go right.  Stop just before passing the first tree on the left.  Rotate left. There's a white light curved over the brown brick pillar in front of you. Touchdown is atop it. Turn away from the intersection and follow the direction of traffic. Go into the next intersection, and make your way straight across. Stop once across, with orange fences ahead on your left. Touchdown is in the middle of the white sign on the first orange fence, covering up the letters.  Turn so the green wall is to your right. Go through that intersection right in front of you, but turn right at the next one just a short ways down. When you turn a median with short black, maybe brown, fencing is to your left and trees are in it. Go through the first intersection. 

Before you get to the next intersection, there will be a line of bikes parked on the right. At the end of the bikes are two planters. Touchdown is placed on top centered between the two planters. 



 Go with the traffic to the intersection and turn right. There will be a white building on your right and a store with a black awning on your left. Go straight. Pass through the stop sign and continue straight. At the next stop sign take a right. There will be a coffee shop on the right and a red dumpster on the left. Go straight to the next intersection and take another right. There should be some tree lining the road on the right and a building with columns on the left. Go straight, pass through the first intersection. You will then see some purple banners. Keep going until you see the two stop signs. Look to your right and you will see a picture in a window of a sideways head in blue. Touchdown in on the head.  With the bridge behind you, the playground on your right, and the patriotic American flag mural on the building to your left, go to the light. 
Go right. 
Go through the next light and continue straight, through the next light as well.
[Interface: You need to be on the far right at the last stretch. It's tricky].
Stop when the brown door of the red brick building is exactly at your right; you'll have passed one with a green awning before it.
Rotate left
Touchdown is on the hydrant.

 Turn until the line of trees is on your left. Walk forward past the little islands in the road to your right and turn right. Walk down the connecting street that has the mural on the right. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. You should see a orange sign with to curvy arrows to your right. Walk forward straight through the next intersection. Make sure you stay to the right side of the street. You should have a green wood wall right next to you on the right. Turn so you are facing the stores opposite the green wall. You should see a black and silver fire hydrant in front of you to the right. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant. Orient yourself with traffic and proceed into the intersection, turning right. At the next intersection, turn right. There are parked cars on either side of you. Proceed down the block until you reach a tile store on the left with a brown awning. Touchdown is in the middle of the brown hanging flag above the store.  Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. There should be a construction area to your right and a line of parked cars to your left.

2. Begin moving forward. When you reach the next intersection, take a right. After reorienting yourself, there should be two buildings to your left with several colorful rectangular blocks lining them. Your destination is close.

3. Keep an eye on the red awning that juts out on your right. Get close to it, but don't pass in front of it. You should be directly to the left of the space between the red and black awnings. On the part of the red awning that juts out and is closest to the street, Touchdown is sitting at the very top of it.

Good luck! :) With the bridge to your left, head towards the stop signs ahead and continue past them, so that you're heading with traffic down the one-way with the bridge to your left and scaffolding to your right. Go left at the light, under the bridge. Go left again at the light on the other side. Go through the stop signs.

Stop when you've just passed the American flag under the bridge to your left, and rotate left to face it. Touchdown is impaled atop that flagpole.  You're going to want to go with the flow of traffic down the four lane road. You're going to take a right at the intersection. You will see green scaffolding on the left and a playground on the right. You are going to pass a supermarket on your right. Keep going until you get to the gren sign on your right with white lettering. Take a right at the intersection. You should see another playground now. Look to your right and see the lit up hand sign. The middle is your touchdown.  Aline yourself with the silver truck and the two people crossing the street. Go towards them and down this road. Follow this road one step left past the next intersection. You';ll see a colorful building on your left. Touchdown is in the first O on the lettering in the window. Go with traffic flow to the intersection that's right there and turn right. 

Still with traffic flow, go to the next corner and turn right. 

With trees in the median to your left, go to the next corner and turn right. It will be a 3-way. When you turn scaffolding will be on your left and a tan building on your right. Further up on the right is a green awning with white lettering. 

Go down this road to the next corner. When you are given an option to turn, look to your right and there is a big orange pipe with smoke/steam coming out of it. Touchdown is on top of this pipe.  Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Follow this street as it curves around and eventually there will be an intersection. Turn right at the first opportunity. You will now be on the small street to the right of a busier street. Go straight until you have an opportunity to turn left to join the busier street, and do so.

When you join the busier street, move ahead through the first intersection. Just past it, face right and there is a red fire hydrant. Touchdown is on top of it. Turn until the brick building is on your right and the garbage bags are on your left. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. The line of trees dividing the road should be on your left. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. The blue corner store should be on your right. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. There should be an orange cone and fire hydrant to your right. Walk forward until you are between a basketball court and playground. Facing the basketball court there should be four black boxes in front of you to your right. Touchdown is in the little gap separating the three boxes from the left box. Walk into traffic down the street, towards the scaffolding and the huge orange dumpster ahead and to the right.  Walk to the end of the block, but stop before you pass the cross walk into the intersection.  Look to your left from where you're standing, and diagonal to you is an olive colored mailbox on the other side of the tree in the sidewalk, around the corner from you.  

Touchdown is sitting center on top of that mailbox. Orient yourself so that you are moving with the flow of traffic. Go straight to the next intersection and turn left. Continue to the next intersection and turn left again. Continue a short bit until you are between trees. On your right is a bright orange flag. Touchdown is on that flag. Turn so the blue awning is on your left.  Follow the flow of traffic to the intersection and turn right.  There's a white paneled building on your right.   Follow this road to the next intersection and turn right.  The burgundy awnings will be on your right now.  Continue down this road, watching for an area of green construction on your left.   Go two buildings past the construction and look to the righthand side of the road.  There is a single orange construction cone to the right of a shrub in front of the white building.  Touchdown is on top of that cone, sitting on the point, Turn so you are going with traffic. Head down the street. At the light take a left. There is another light nearby ahead. Take a left here. There will be a gray store front with yellow letting on your right.Go straight down this street. On the right there will be a long concrete building with yellow orange colored bricks on the upper levels. Stop when you are almost to the end of this building. Look to your left. There is brick building with pale yellow accents around the windows. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the three digit number on the maroon awning in front of this building.  From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  Some metal shutters with graffiti should be on your left.  

Walk forward, and go straight through the first four-way intersection you come to.  These intersections can be tricky, so please make sure that a sky-blue wall with white clouds is on your right as you exit the intersection.  If it is, then keep moving straight forward.  It is a long straight walk, between two rows of parked cars.  If you see a temporary orange diamond sign on the road up ahead, you're on the right track.  

Just keep going until you come to an intersection.  

Take a left at this four-way intersection.  The small white shopfront with black lettering (and a red-and-white bowtie-shaped logo) should be on your right as you proceed. 

There are two orange signs with black lettering on a lamppost up ahead on the right.  Move forward until you have just passed these signs.  Look to your right, and stop when that lamppost is behind you, and a bus stop with a bench and glass shelter is just in front of you.  

Still looking to your right, you should see a fire hydrant on the sidewalk.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this hydrant.  You should be able to find the bear easily if you are standing in this spot, but if you can still see the orange fronts of the signs, you might not be able to find him.  Go in the same direction as traffic.  A parking lot will be on your right and some scaffolding will be on your left.    Move forward to the first intersection.  Turn left. The street you will be going down has a closed-up storefront painted completely black on the right side.   Move down this street to the first intersection and turn left again.  You will be headed in the same direction as traffic and a color fence will be on your right.  Move down this street until you go under the raised highway.  When you are halfway under this overpass (just past the yellow and black pedestrian sign), stop and turn to your right.    You should see the yellow and black pedestrian sign again, although you will see if from the side, not the front.  Touchdown is sitting on the very top of this sign.   Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  There should be a white barrier with a yellow and orange sign on it on your left.
Head forward, passing some chain link fencing on the right and scaffolding on the left.
Turn right at the next intersection and you will see a glass skyscraper standing alone off in the distance on the left.  Step through the next intersection onto the crosswalk on the far side.  On your right is a phone booth with some bikes leaning on it.  Touchdown is on the base of this phone booth.
 Go towards the intersection that is right next to you, once in the middle turn around and go in the same direction you came from. You will have a fenced in sports area on your left and a brick building to your right. Go straight through the next intersection, At the next intersection make a right, you will have a red building on the right and on the left will be a small parking lot. Go straight and you will see a playground with a black fence around it to your right. Stop just after you pass the end of the black fence. Turn to your right and you will see the walkway between the fence and the building, Turn to your left and you will see an area with benches. On the right, in front of the building is a fire hydrant between two yellow poles, touchdown is at the top of the fire hydrant.  Stand so that the stores with blue door/window frames are on your left. Move ahead until you reach an intersection (you will come to a dead end facing green scaffolding), and turn right. Then cross through one intersection and at the second (which is a 3 way intersection), turn right. 

Move down this street, passing scaffolding on your left, and passing straight through an opportunity to turn left. Soon on your left will be a black fence with 2 large signs on it. Touchdown is on the center of the smaller sign, which is white and red. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic for the side of the road you're on.  Go through the intersection ahead and then passing some scaffolding on the right.
Turn left at the next intersection down a narrow one-way street with a green painted lane (there are two arrows almost identically overlapped, fiddle around til you can go down this road).  One you do you'll have a bright painted red brick wall on your right.
Go straight through the next intersection and you will have black awnings on you right.
Turn left at the next intersection to see a very colorful storefront to the left and white/orange barriers to the right.
Head down this street until you are right next to the bright yellow sign with people on it on the right side of the road.
Touchdown is on this yellow sign. move with the cars facing you, continue straight with green fencing to your left and orange and white drums to your right, move forward to the intersection, there are orange construction drums with caution take around a hole on the road, there is a wooden took box next to a drum, the bear is in the box Turn to travel with traffic. At the first intersection, take a right. Go down this street, straight through the first intersection stopping just before you reach the 2nd intersection. Stop right after you pass the bus stop on your right. You will see a vandalized newspaper machine to the bus stop sign. Touchdown is on top of vandalized dispenser.  Orient yourself with traffic on the one way street. Turn left at the first intersection. Turn left again at the next intersection so that the park is now on your right and you're traveling with traffic down a one way street. At the end of this block, turn left so you have made three lefts in a row. You're on another one way street surrounded by stone buildings and a parked mail truck is on your right. Just past the mail truck is an empty bus stop. Touchdown is on the time clock on the sign next to the bus stop.  Go with the flow of traffic.  When you reach the first intersection, turn left.  There will be a flower market with a maroon awning on your left as you turn.  Go to the next intersection and turn left again.  This time there will be a green awning on your right with big white lettering.  Go all the way down this street to the intersection, stopping immediately after you cross over the first crosswalk.  Turn 90 degrees to your right.  You should be facing a tree with a brick pattern laid around it instead of normal sidewalk. Behind this tree are tall, narrow windows that are not clear; they are white. Touchdown is sitting at the base of this tree, in the middle of the base.  turn so the blue bikes are on your right, at the intersection go straight, after you exit the intersection, there is a yellow and red building, there is a hydrant at the sidewalk and the beat is on top  Stand with the scaffolding to your right and go down the small one-way street, passing the red awning and make a right at the first intersection. Continue past the red building with the bushes near the wall and make a right at the upcoming intersection. Pass the red awning on your right and continue down the street. Reach the middle of the first intersection and make a slight left and quickly stop. The brick building is to your right and the white building with black awning is on your left. Touchdown is on top of the blue mailbox in front of the brick building on your right. Go in the same direction as traffic, turning left at the first intersection. At the next 2 intersections, go left again. There will be an olive green storefront with a copper roof overhang on the brick building to your left. As you approach the next intersection, stop just before the crosswalk and look to the street corner to your right. Touchdown is on top of, centered on, the yellow box hooked to the street sign pole.  Turn so that you are facing the intersection you are very close to. The graffiti wall will be on your right if you are facing the correct direction. Go into the intersection and turn left.  You'll see a storefront that is white on the first floor on the right corner once you turn. Go only a very short distance and you turn left again so that you are heading back the way you came like it's a u-turn. You will be on the same street you started but on the other side of it. Now the graffiti will be on your left side and you will also have a median with bushes directly to the left. You'll pass a parked box truck that has graffiti on the right side. Keep going. At the first intersection continue straight ahead. At the second intersection turn left. Go just a short distance and turn left again in the same intersection so it's another u-turn basically but putting you on the other side of the same street.. There will be a park close on the right side of you after you turn. At the first intersection go straight a short distance. On the right side you'll see different colored bins that have wheels in the road. One is green, a couple are blue, one is purple then some taller metal carts. Touchdown is in the middle on top of the green bin. At your starting point, turn until you are facing the big bus that is next to the coffee shop. Go straight for one click, and then turn left at the intersection. Go straight through the intersection where you see the red and yellow umbrellas. Go past the glass building and through the next intersection. continue going straight. Go straight through the intersection where there is a big red truck on either side of the street. When you are approaching the intersection, you will see blue and yellow umbrellas on the left and a chicken restaurant on the right. To the left there is a police woman holding her hat while standing on the sidewalk next to a big white truck. Touchdown Bear is on her face.  Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. Just ahead of you and to the right, there should be three black flags and some scaffolding just beyond that.

2. Take a left at the first intersection. There should be some food carts and tables selling items on either side of the street.

3. Pass through the first intersection. At the next one, you'll have two opportunities to turn. Take a right at the first choice (a three-way intersection). There should be a large construction area that stretches down the street to your right and a median to your left. You're getting close!

4. Keep an eye on the stores on the right. When you've just passed an off-white store with a few mannequins in the window and are now in front of an orange-brown store with dark red signs, stop.

5. Above the long sign above the windows, you should see five lamps. Touchdown is in the middle of the center lamp.

Good luck! :) Go down the road you are on in the direction of traffic to the first traffic light and turn right.Stay with the flow of traffic.At the next traffic light turn right. Touchdown is going to be down this street under a green awning between the 2 planters on the sidewalk. The building is right by a school crossing sign Align yourself with traffic and move to the intersection. Take a right and move down this road. Walk forward to another intersection. Take another right. Walk forward down this road for a while to the next intersection. In front to the right of you are three small poles. Touchdown is on top of the middle pole. Turn around until you find a crosswalk on the street right near you (white paint).  Turn so that crosswalk is behind you, and go forward.  Your road will curve to the right, then straighten out.  When you reach the intersection, turn right.  You'll be on a narrow street that's divided from the main street out to your left.  There's a black iron fence along your right.  Go forward until you're able to make a slight left at the split in the road, and take that slight left so you go out onto the main road.  Move straight out toward the intersection, but stop right before you actually step onto the crosswalk.  Look to your left, and on the corner there's a bright yellow newspaper dispenser box.  The bear is on top of that box.  Hello. Please orient yourself with the flow of traffic. To your left will be a median with trees. To your right will be a red brick building with a stairway that has black railings.

Walk forward to the four-way intersection ahead. Turn left. 

There will be scaffolding with green awning to your right. There will be a green bicycle lane to your left near the median.

Walk forward, ignore the three-way turn that you encounter. Keep going until the next four-way intersection. Turn left again.

There will be orange and white construction cones to your right side. Cross straight through the three-way turn you encounter but slow down at this point. 

Notice there will be two red and white signs with letters up ahead on your right. Please stop when you are standing next to the tall light pole with the white sign and red letters. It will be to the left of a rounded black door with two globes on each side.

Touchdown will be in the center of the globe to the left of the black door. Good luck! Align yourself with the flow of traffic, with the intersection in front of you. Keep straight through the first intersection, and make a left at the second.

A couple of steps up you should see green covering the window of a store, and on your left, a sign that displays temperature and time. Touchdown is in the middle of the display of the sign. Go towards and past the stop sign and follow the road to the light. Go right. At the next light, go left, towards the red strip on the asphalt ahead. Stop before passing the solid white line before the crosswalk.

Touchdown is atop the smoking orange pipe ahead and to your right. Orient yourself so the intersection is just steps in front of you. You'll be facing oncoming traffic. There are potted plants to your right, and four mailboxes on your left. Step into this intersection and turn left. A food vendor with red and yellow umbrellas will immediately be on your right. 

Stay straight to the next intersection. This is a very long block. You're almost halfway there when you pass a parking lot on your right. Once you reach the traffic light, turn right.  Just before the next intersection, you'll see a very small median in the road on your left. The end of it is in line with the beginning of the crosswalk. Touchdown is sitting in the bottom of the black wire trash bin there on the median.  Begin moving with traffic down this one way street. When you get to the first intersection, turn right. Now, you'll have a building with large windows and two red signs on your left.

At the next intersection, turn right again. Pass the dumpster with the blue tarp on your left and slow down when you get close to the yellow buses parked on your right. Just before the first bus is a flight of stairs to a dark brown building on your left. Just after these stairs is a light pole with a globe (ball-shaped) light.Touchdown is sitting on top of that globe.  Turn and walk in the direction of traffic. Pass a colorful flag hanging form a balcony on your right, then a building with blue posts on your left. Go left at the intersection. Pass a light red brick building on your right with a sign that has eagle wings on it. Turn left at the next intersection. Pass by an old couch leaning against a building on your left. You will also see bikes painted on the roadway.  Keep going. Go past a large dumpster covered with a blue tarp on your left. Stop in front of a gray and brown building on your left with curved iron posts covering the windows. Touchdown is sitting at the top of the stairwell on the right side of the glass door. He is in the middle of the stairwell opening. Go down the street with traffic flow and keep going past the construction scaffolding on the left. Go straight through the intersection, past construction scaffolding on the left. Further down you'll pass cement road blocks on the right. Keep going and right before the next intersection there's a building with a white bottom on the right. Turn to the right and Touchdown is in a doorway of that building. Turn so you're walking against the flow of traffic. Go straight until the next intersection, then turn left. Continue forward until you see what looks like a cathedral on the right. Just before the cathedral will be a store with lots of blue and purple lights. Across from that store will be another store with a very tall doorway. On top of the doorway is a unicorn. Touchdown is at that unicorn's feet. Turn so you are facing the same direction that traffic is traveling.  Continue down the road, through the first intersection and continue to the next intersection.  Turn right, there will be a red brick half fence with a black iron top half on your left now.  Follow the road and turn right at the first intersection you come to.   Travel halfway down that road and look to your right.  There is a pink sign with a grey boarder and a pink oval on top.  Touchdown is in the middle of the pink oval sign above the store. If you are in the correct position there is a gray building on your right with double doors with silver door handle. On your left are many white buildings. Please head straight.
When you reach the first intersection please make a right turn. There should be a red brick building on your right. It appears to be a clothing store. On your left is a brown building which also appears to be a store. When you reach the next intersection please make a right.
Continue straight until you reach the next intersection then turn right.
Before you reach the next intersection if you look to your right in front of a building which has four white doors you will see an orange traffic cone stick touchdown is sitting directly in front of it on the sidewalk. Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Head to the nearest intersection.  Turn left.  Go through one intersection.  On the  left is the bike rentals, but they are empty., face them.  Stop halfway across them.  There is a bike in the distance chained up.  The bear is on the seat. Turn and face the direction os the scaffolding is on your right side and you are going the same direction the traffic is going. Turn right at the first intersection and go to the next intersection. At this intersection, you will take another right. There is a pop-up stand on the right side of the sidewalk. Proceed down this street, as you come to the next intersection there is a set of small silver phone booths on the left sidewalk. The Touchdown is on the top of the phonebooths in the middle.  Align yourself so the fenced in court is on your left and the fancy garden is on your right. head up to the intersection to make a left You'll head straight through a left turn, and an intersection, to make another left at the second intersection, you should have striped black and white awnings with one black awning after the turn on your left. Head down to the middle of the building after the striped awning building, and there should be a blue striped parking meter in front of the grey building. Touchdown is on top of the meter. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, with the scaffolding ahead on your left. At the first intersection, make a right, then another right at the next intersection

Follow this road down about halfway. There should be a purple and gold theater to your left, and scaffolding to your right when you stop. In front of the theater there is a black/blue bike. Touchdown is sitting on the seat of the bike. Follow traffic to and thru the light. Go past the blue bikes on your left and stop exactly between the two beige umbrellas of the building with tables and chairs out front on your left.  

Touchdown sits atop the right umbrella's pole at the top. turn until you are facing traffic, there is a red building to your left with cement plant boxes with flowers in them. At the intersection turn left, there is a sign on each side of the road with a red circle on it. at the end of this street is a sign post with a bicycle leaning on it, the touch down is in the middle of the arrow on the top sign If you're in the correct position there should be a gray building to your right with double doors.
To your left are orange and white construction barriers.
Now please head straight. When you reach the intersection please turn left.
If you turn on the proper Street to your left is a billing that is gray with the red stripe across the banner. This is right beside a commercial garage. On your right are glass buildings. Please continue straight until you reach the next intersection.
Now make a left turn.
If you turn in the proper place on your left you will see a concrete wall with a fence on top. On the right you will see a giant gray building. Please continue straight.
You will cross through the first intersection.
If you turn to your right before reaching the next intersection you will see a long bench. Touchdown is sitting on the bench on the farthest to the left seat. Go in the same direction as traffic. Go right at the first intersection. Go right again at the next one. The store on your right will have orange and white letters for a sign. When you come to sidewalk construction to the right, with a green roof, look ahead to a white building on the right. Just past the white building, stop and look at it. It has dark doors and center fancy garage door. Touchdown is on top of the lamp above the dark door on the left.  Turn so there is store on your right that is bright red with yellow lettering on it. Head straight down this road. Follow traffic straight through the first light you come to. Go straight. You will come to another intersection. Go straight. There is another intersection very close. Take a right here. You will see a long narrow red sign on your right with gold and white writing on it. Head straight down this road. Take a right down the road just past the building under construction on the right side of the road. Stop when you get to the red octagon sign. Touchdown is sitting on the first motorcycle parked on the left side of the street. Go with the flow of traffic through this intersection.  You'll see a rounded brown awning on your right.  At the next intersection, go straight.  At the next intersection, turn right. There will be orange and white striped barriers to your left.  Go straight until there is a street to the left.  Don't turn, but look to your right for a fire hydrant, it's in front of a grey garage door.  Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant.  Turn yourself so you facing the flow of traffic. 
Go straight just a bit until you reach an intersection. Turn right.
Turn yourself so you are facing the flow of traffic again. On the right side of the road, you will see a building with a red and white bullseye on the side.
Go straight. 
Go straight through 2 intersections. 
You will come to the 3rd interection, go straight through it. Right after passing through this intersection, look to your right and look for a building that has a large awning that is painted half gold and half blue. Under this awning, there is a large pot with a plant. Touchdown is sitting on top of the pot.  Orient yourself with the blue awning on your left, go down the one way street and make a right at the first intersection, with the brick building now on your right. Make your last right at the next intersection, continue forward and stop when you reach the middle of the first intersection. You will have to get to the right side of the lane and Touchdown will be on top of the garbage pale to your right. Orient yourself so that the construction site is to your left and the black framed store front with the red signage is to your right.Go down that street, you will see the top of a ship in front of you, and make a left at the traffic light, now there will be a brown building on your right and a gray building on your left. Go straight and stop at the traffic light. There will be a green leaf on a brown building at the corner on your right. Touchdown is on the first green leaf closest to the left corner. You are on a one way road near an intersection, go away from the intersection, with the green scaffolding on your right. At the next intersection make a right. You will have a red store front to your right. Go straight through he next intersection. At the next intersection make a right, you will have red awnings on your left. On the building on the right you will see a blue flag followed by a red white and blue flag, stop in between these two flags. Turn to the left and you will see a gold entryway, to the left of the door is a gold pole with two yellow circles coming out of the sidewalk. Touchdown is on top of this pole.  Turn so your facing the direction that traffic flows. Go down to the first intersection and take a right. Move to the next intersection and hang another right. There should be a bunch of construction on the right with the sidewalk being closed. When you get passed the construction, you are about half way there. Keep an eye on the right. You will eventually come to a large brick building with a stone facade that has a large black awning over the front door. When you pass that awning stop.

Look back at the awning you passed. The touchdown is on top of it on the corner closest to you.  Position yourself in which you see a yellow arrow on your left hand side. Head in that direction till you reach the intersection. Once at the intersection you want to make a right turn. There should be some red or orange blockage on your right when you make a right turn. Head in that direction going under the bridge till you see another bridge up ahead. You should notice some orange white cones near the bridge. Counting from the one near bridge going down, you should be position between cone 6 and 7 on your left hand side. The touchdown is on top of cone 6. Turn so there are several garage doors on your right. At the intersection up ahead take a left. There will be blue awnings on your right with white lettering and a logo. Go straight until you are almost at the crosswalk at the next intersection. On the right there is a post with traffic lights on it. Touchdown is sitting on top of the green box on this post.  Orient yourself so that you will be moving in the same direction as traffic.  You will noice a black and white striped awning on your left when you are facing the right way.  

Proceed to the first intersection and turn right.  You will be going the same direction as traffic and there will be a red storefront on your left with large white letters. 
 
Move forward until you reach the next intersection.  At this intersection turn right again. You will again be heading in the same direction as traffic.  There will be a produce stand with a green awning on your left.

Proceed down the street past the American flag on the right and past the big yellow dumpster on your left.  Stop shortly after passing that dumpster.  

Turn quite far to the right (about 120 degrees to the right).  You will see a skeleton hanging from a tree.  Touchdown is sitting on top of that skeleton.
 Orient yourself so that a store with green awning is ahead on the left. Proceed down toward it, but turn left before it. Pass by a tall white building on the right with a white statue out front. Perform a U-turn at the light and head back down the way you came. There should be a long red awning on the store to your right. Enter the intersection after the building with the awning, but don't exit it. Touchdown is on the cap of the fire hydrant ahead on the right. You are going to go with the flow of the traffic and take a right at the intersection. You should see a shop on your left with red banners. Keep forward. You're going to go past the first and second intersections. There should be a tractor in front of you this whole time. You should see a bus to your right, and a sports shop to your left. Your touchdown is on top of the yellow cone on the right.  Follow traffic towards the bridge and go right at the intersection.  With the bridge now on your left, take a right on the next street you come to. To your left will be a fenced in court and small park.  Go almost to the light, but stop when you're in the final gate between hedges, after the green awning on your left.  

Look ahead and to your left, and you'll see a red hydrant on the left corner. Touchdown is atop it. Walk down the street with the red and white cones on your right and a fenced in parking lot on your left.Turn right at the first street with the stop sign.Turn right down the first street.Touchdown is close to the next stop sign in front of the fire hydrant on your right between the 2 poles Turn and go in the same direction of the traffic. You want to be going down the street where the silver  and white wall with diamonds on it is on the left and you will see a green bridge overhead the street. Turn left at the intersection. Before going into the next intersection look to the left and there is a black and white sign with an arrow on a light pole. Touchdown is sitting on top of sign.  Going with the flow of traffic, proceed then turn right at the first intersection. Now you will go straight for a while, passing two intersection and make a u-turn at the third intersection.   Look for the hanging pot of flowers on the scaffolding after the second white truck on the right side, Touchdown is on the pot. GO WITH traffic and GO LEFT at the light.  GO LEFT again at the next light.

STOP when the windows of the red awning of the grey brick building with the green trimmed roof are to your left. ROTATE RIGHT.  You should be facing down the sidewalk to the right of bushes behind a fence.  

FIND Touchdown atop the yellow newspaper kiosk. With the bridge to your right and the baseball field to your left, go against traffic and through the first and second lights.  At the second, stop when you're standing on the crosswalk at the other side.  If you rotate right, you should be staring down the crosswalk gap, straight out into the water.

Touchdown is adhered to the center of the black portion of the yellow traffic sign to the left of the crosswalk, before the k-walls resume. Go towards the traffic light with the red doors on your left. At the light turn left down the one way street following the flow of traffic.Go to the traffic light 2 blocks up and turn left. Make another left turn at the next light. Go to the single bike on the right and touchdown is sitting on the metal grate in the sidewalk  Turn and walk in the same direction as traffic. Go right at the first intersection. A storefront with an orange line of glass will be to your right. Walk ahead and go left at the next intersection. You will be walking into oncoming traffic, so be careful. Go right at the next intersection, but only walk into the first lane of traffic and stop.  On the corner ahead of you on your left, see a gray mailbox next to a smaller blue mailbox.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the blue one. Turn to go with traffic flow with the red brick building to your left and parking lot to your right. There is some scaffolding up on the right as well. 
Just keep going straight down this road. It's a long one and you will pass more scaffolding on your left, then more ahead of that on the right. 
On the left you will see orange and white road barriers as you get close to the intersection. At the end of the barriers, on the left, is a red pole with an ornate top. Touchdown is on top of that. Follow traffic to the light and go right. Go right again at the next one, and make one more right at the two stop signs, after the orange porta-potties on your right.

There'll be a park on your left and a red brick building to your right, both behind fences. Stop after the second large tree on your right.  Touchdown is ahead and on the right at the center of the yellow triangular sign with two stick people. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, and make a left at the intersection. Shortly after, make another left. Ignore the turns immediately following down this street, and head straight down, there should be a red and stone building on your left, and scaffolding on your right. Stop when you see the first entrance of the stone building, and take a step forward, you should see a blue postal box in front of you, with a stone foundation to its left. Touchdown is sitting on the foundation. Align yourself with the food truck on your left, and head with the flow of traffic. You'll pass by construction blockades on your left, and go straight through the first intersection

At the second intersection, make a right. The scaffolding should be on your right with a bunch of service vans and a camper.

Go to the third white service fan, and just past it is a blue striped parking meter. Touchdown is sitting on the meter. Go forward with the island with cobblestones to your left and chainlink fence to your right. Go left at the light, then immediately left again. You're heading back down the street you just came up, and the same median is on your left. When you get to the light, just go a step right. Rotate to look at the corner, where there's a red brick building with orange metal construction fence and a heavily graffitied olive colored mailbox.  Touchdown is centered atop it. Turn so you are going with traffic. At the nearby intersection go straight. At the next light take a right. Go down the street. At the next intersection take a right. Stop after you get through the intersection. You will see a bulls-eye sign down the street on the right. Look to your left. There are two doors to a business with green circles on them. Touchdown is in the middle of the circle on the left door.  Orient yourself so you are facing the same way the cars are travelling, with the red brick building on your right.  Move down this street to the end of it.  When you are far enough into the intersection to make a choice, turn right.  There will be a red brick building with a wooden ramp on your right and you should be travelling with the flow of traffic.  Go forward and look for a green awning on scaffolding on your right.  Just past this you should turn to your right and travel down the one way street with the flow of traffic.  Look for a chainlink fence with curled barbed wire above it on your left.  Halfway down this fence, look to your left.  You should see a bright yellow cube with a step.  Touchdown is on top of the yellow cube. Follow the flow of traffic and turn left as soon as possible. After you get out of the intersection there should be some orange construction barrels to your left. Continue forward and then turn left at the next intersection. Go straight and then turn right at the next intersection. Stop right before you reach the next intersection. The touchdown is a yellow newspaper box on the left side of the intersection across the street. Orient yourself so you are moving with traffic. Move ahead to the first intersection and turn right. You should have a white building withe a blue canopy on your left. Move ahead to the next intersection and turn right again. Now you should be moving with traffic still, on a more narrow road. On your left is an off-white building with a red and white logo. 

Now move forward all the way to the next intersection.  At the Y before you reach the intersection, stay right. Stop in the middle of the intersection. Ahead to your right is a trash can. Touchdown is on top of the trash can. Align yourself with the food truck on the left corner across, and the graffiti truck on the right, with a motorbike in front of it. head in to the intersection, and turn right.

You should be with the flow of traffic, and school written on the road. Ignore the first intersection, and take a right at the second. A few steps in, you should see a white loading door, with a brown delivery truck to the right of it. To the left of the loading door, is a glass entrance door, and to the right, is a metal door.

Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the loading door at the bottom. If you check your surrounding you should notice a green sign on your right with a bicycle symbol. Head in that direction you are facing until you arrive at a traffic light. Once you arrive at the traffic light continue heading straight until your quite close to the building with the three flags in which one of them is an American flag on your right. You should be directly in front of the green door that is on your right. You should notice a bicycle in between the flag building and the green door on your right. The touchdown is sitting on the bicycle seat. Turn so the closest intersection is behind you and you will be moving in the same direction as traffic. Walk to the intersection ahead and turn right.

On the right corner that you just turns on, there is a red awning with white lettering. Go to the end of this block and turn right again.

Now you have scaffolding over a shop with blue awnings on your right. Go down this block to the next intersection and turn right again.

On your left there is an empty store with yellow walls. Go down this street looking to your left. Before you hit the intersection, there is a light blue house with a dark wood door. Touchdown is on the white keystone on top of the arch over the door.


 position yourself so you are following the traffic direction. The scaffolding will be on your left and the orange/white traffic blocks will be on your right. Go straight. At the intersection where the brown delivery truck is being unloaded, turn left. Make sure you are on the road where the scaffolding is on the left and construction is on the right half of the road. Do not go on the road where the yellow trucks are! Now go straight on the road under construction. When you reach the intersection. Turn left. Now scaffolding will be on your left. Go straight on this road till you reach the next intersection. Turn left here. Now scaffolding is on your left again. Go straight till you reach the intersection. Now go into the intersection by going slightly left then slightly right. You should see on your right there will be two trucks stopped at the corsswalk .Then look at your left side on the walkway, there will be three trashcans, with green/black/blue tops. The touchdown is on top of the green trash can Orient so there is a garbage truck ahead on your left Move forward through the traffic split and turn right at the first opportunity afterward. Take another right at the next intersection. Just before another intersection, Touchdown is sitting next to the base of a missing street pole on the right-hand sidewalk. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and scaffolding on your left.  Go straight through the first intersection.  You will have diamond grated windows on the left once you do.  Head forward and turn left at the next intersection.  You should be going with the flow of traffic and see scaffolding ahead on the left.  Turn left at the next intersection.  Once you do, you will see a blue marquee with white writing and a red arc on the right and scaffolding on the left.  Head forward until you are just past the neon pink sign on the right.  On the let you will see a silver pole with a white sign and red text.  Touchdown is hiding on this sign.





 Go against the flow of traffic and as soon as your turn left at the next road you will see an American flag on the building in front of you.Touchdown is sitting on the stars of that flag turn to move with traffic, you will pass a blue gate on your left, move to the 1st intersection and take a left. you will see a grocery store with posters of food in the windows, take a left , that store will remain on your left on this one way street. You will pass a wall with a mural on the left. there is a building with scaffolding, just after the scaffolding is a red and white sign, the bear is on that sign Go with traffic. 
Turn right at the first intersection. 
Keep straight to the intersection. (the one just pass the stop sign)
Turn left. ( school will be printed on the street.)
Go straight pass the first intersection.
Turn left at the next intersection.
Stop behind the first white van on the right next to the subway entrance.
There is a red fire hydrant between two red poles. (behind the white van)
Touchdown is on top of the red fire hydrant.
 

 Turn towards the direction of traffic, so you are going the right way. Walk forward, until you get to the intersection. Turn left at the intersection. There should be a building with orange flags hanging from it on your right. Walk forward until you get to the next intersection. There will be a building on your right with a rectangular red sign on the second floor. Turn left at this intersection. Stop shortly after, when you are in front of the second tree on your right, which should be in front of a shop with a bench in front of it. There is an air conditioner box right above the door to the shop. Touchdown is in the center of the box. Head in the direction of traffic, with the striped barrier to your left. There will be an opportunity to go right, but keep going straight instead. Turn left at the next intersection. Keep going straight with the striped barrier now on your right. Once the barrier ends, keep going straight. Pass the enter and exit signs on the building on the right. Pass the stairway with the chain in front of it. On the right, there is a fire hydrant with a silver looking top. Touchdown is sitting on the top of the hydrant.  Hello. Please orient yourself with the flow of traffic. To your right will be a red bus lane. To your left, there will be scaffolding with green awning and a small median with a single tree in it.

Walk forward until you reach the four-way intersection ahead. 
Continue straight all the way through it. 

There will be a green bicycle lane to your left as well as a white and black rounded building with lots of windows. There will be a red bus lane to your right.

Continue straight to the next intersection. You must shift to the right to reach the center of a three-way turn. Turn left here.

You will see a phone booth to your left with orange, blue and white on it. To your right, there will be a large sidewalk with stone planters and black poles with three globes on each pole.

Walk forward on this long path until you encounter a three-way turn. Cross straight through it while keeping an eye on the right side. 

Please stop when you are standing equal to a medical vehicle with green and white colors and gold accents. Look directly behind the vehicle towards the white stone building. There will be a white box on the wall. There is a black spotlight. In between these objects, there is a white statue of a person.

Touchdown will be directly on the head of this statue. Good luck! Head down the road the same direction as traffic. When you reach the intersection turn left. Go straight. At the next intersection continue straight. You will reach another intersection and go straight through again.  In the middle median to the left there are pumpkins and hay bales. Touchdown is on the white pumpkin that is up on the hay. You are near an intersection
Rotate to face away from the intersection.

Proceed to the next intersection.
Turn left at the intersection.

Proceed toward the next intersection.
Just before entering the intersection, you will be standing on the white striped paint of the crosswalk. You will see a round manhole cover near your feet. Stop here.
If you move through the intersection you will have gone to far and must move back.
Turn to your right to see a dark bronze statue of a man in some sort of robe with a greenish base. The bear is sitting on the head of the statue.
 Go with traffic to the light. At the light take a right. Go about a block and take another right up a cobblestone street. Go straight at the first intersection. Take a right at the next one. You will see dining tables and chairs on the right sidewalk. Go straight one block. Take a right and go a short distance and stop beside the red motorcycled parked on the right. Behind that you will see a square vent on the  street level of a brick building. Touchdown is in the middle point of that vent on the ground floor.  Turn so that you are facing the same direction as traffic. Go straight toward the stop sign. Once you get to the stop sign you will see 4 American flags up ahead on your left. Go straight through the stop sign. Align yourself even with the 4 American flags. Look to your right and you will see a coffee shop. In front of the coffee shop is a light pole with a square orange sign. Touchdown in right on the orange sign. Look at the tractor, and click left,  The map will change.  Keep the golden arches on your right, and continue forward.  At the intersection, turn right.  Continue forward.  Turn right at the next intersection.  There is a large black sign.  Continue past it.  There is a theater on the left.  Stop at the end of its sign.  Look to the right.  There is a picture of two eyes.  The bear is in the right eye.  Go in the same direction that the cars are going in.  Going straight you will enter a tunnel. After exiting the tunnel, the road will continue to go straight or veers left. You will continue to go straight.  Small orange cones will line both sides of the lane.  As you get ready to merge into traffic. there is a small silver building on the left side of the sidewalk and a double pole holding a yellow diamond sign and a rectangle sign. The Touchdown is on the diamond sign.  Align yourself with the flow of traffic in your lane. You'll have to make a right, then a top left turn to get back straight on this road.

Make a right at the first intersection. Several steps down, you should see some trash bags on your left. Touchdown is on the right most trash bag. Orient yourself so that the big highway is to your left.  Follow the curve of the street around until you come to a t-intersection where you're forced to turn.  Turn right.  There will now be identical brick apartment buildings on either side of you.  Go straight down this street to the first intersection.    Stop in the intersection, before you cross over the second crosswalk.  Turn 90 degrees to your right.  There is a green box attached to the light pole.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this green box.   You want to face the intersection that has a giant white billboard with red dots on the left. Go straight through the intersection. Follow that road all the way down to your first intersection. There will be an office supply store on your right with a red sign and white letters. Take a right. Go straight until just before the next intersection. On your left is a light colored building. In front of the building to the left of the doors is a chalkboard sign with four balloons tied to it. Touchdown will be on the balloons. Follow traffic, entering the left lane as soon as you can and go through the first light, and take a left at the next one where it's possible.  You'll pass a building with a red sign band and blue dimensional letters on the left.  Continue slightly until you see the glass doors between two stone pillars on your left and face it. There's a parking meter with a blue band slightly right of it; touchdown is sitting atop it. Align yourself so that the white awning is directly to your left, and follow the flow of traffic up to the first intersection, to make a right. You'll make another right shortly after.

Here you should pass a gangster and alien mural on your left with fenced in garbage bins. You'll want to watch the left for a blue door with a potted plant outside of it. Touchdown is on top of the potted plant in front of the steps. Follow traffic to the light and go right, and go right again at the next light.  Pass straight through the next light, stopping after the black storefront with graffiti to your right and then facing right. Behind the bus shelter is a wall with a painting of a white tea cup.  Touchdown sits center on its rim in the steamy goodness. Follow the flow of traffic in to the intersection.  Turn right.  At next intersection, turn right.  Continue down this road until you see a lighted clover.  Continue past clover to blue awnings on left.  Look left and pass the awnings until you are directly in front of a picture of 2 bottles.  Bear on top of left bottle.    Orient yourself so you are facing the same direction the cars are traveling, and there is a white and blue awning on your right.  Walk down to the first intersection, and continue straight on this road through it.  Walk all the way down the block to the next intersection.  Turn right and look at the corner of the street, there's a green trashcan with a green lid right next to a blue mailbox.  Touchdown is on top of the green trashcan, covering the whole that you put the trash in. Take one left to head in to the intersection. Go straight with the flow of traffic, with the  two construction pylons on your right, and the brown storefront on your left, with a man in blue sitting outside of it. 

In the next intersection, to your left should be a blue door and a metro entrance, to the left of that, should be a green trash bin and a black trash bag on the floor. Touchdown is on top of the green trash bin. Orient yourself to move in the same direction as traffic.  Go to the end of the block and turn right.  Go down one block and turn right again down the one way street.  Go down one block and again, turn right.   Move forward a little bit.  On your right you should see a store with a bright yellow sign, then slightly further down the street, still on your right, a store with a purple sign.  Stop when you get to the purple store.  Touchdown bear is in the doorway of the store withe the purple sign. Align yourself with the row of awnings on your left,  Go through the first intersection, and the next chance you have to make a right, take it.  You should have the scaffolding from the previous street on your left now, continuing down this road.

There will be a break for an entrance in the red fencing to your left, stop after the break. On your right, there should be a blue and green pair of bins in front of a hydrant. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant. Turn around to face the four-way intersection, and take a step into it.  You should now be able to turn left.  A building with red signs and white letters should be on your left as you move forward.  (it may be obscured by buses for a short distance).

Move forward and stop in the intersection.  Turn to your left.  A small shop with a red sign and blue lettering should be on the right-hand sidewalk of a narrow street.  Walk down this street.  It's a long straight walk, but if you pass American flags hanging from the building on your left, you are on the right track, so just keep moving. 

Slow down as you come to a long row of blue bicycles, and stop at the end of that row, before you reach a large intersection. 

Look to your right.  There should be a red awning, and a sign of glowing red letters above it.  In between the glowing sign and the awning, are five circular signs, three of them red, two of them blue.  Touchdown the Bear is sitting on top of the red circle in the middle. There will be scaffolding on your right, go with the flow of traffic to the next intersection and turn right. At the next intersection, turn right.  The awning to your left will have two stars on it.  Stop when you see the orange and white barrier for pedestrians on your left.  There's a green mailbox before they begin.  Touchdown will be on top of that mailbox. Turn so the nearby intersection is at your back and there is construction scaffolding on your left.  Go forward until you reach an intersection, and turn left.  
Now you'll have construction scaffolding on your left.  Go forward until you reach an intersection, and turn left again.  
You'll have stores with black awnings on your left now.  Go forward and straight through the first intersection you come to.  Go forward, and a few store fronts before you get to the next intersection look on the right for a storefront where the sign has been removed.  It's a large black sign, but the wording has all been painted over or removed from it.  There is an open door in this storefront.  The bear is in the center of the open doorway. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Go straight through the first intersection.
At the next intersection you should see some barriers and construction across the street.  Turn right here.  You should be heading down a brick road with scaffolding ahead on the left.
Turn right at the next intersection.  Ahead of you are some barriers and construction materials to the right.
Go forward and straight through the first intersection.
Before you get to the next intersection, when you can first see the orange and yellow boxes on the right over the hood of a parked car, you will find Touchdown sitting on that orange box. From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  The red brick wall should be on your left, and the courtyard should be on your right.  

Walk forward and stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to.  Turn to your left, so that you see a pinkish stone wall on the building to your right, and scaffolding along the sidewalk on your left.  

Walk down this street, and go straight through the first intersection you come to.  

At the next intersection, turn to your left.  You should see school buses parked on the left side of the street, and there will be white lettering on a dark colored shop sign to the right.  

Walk down this street.  You will soon pass a bus stop canopy and bench on your right.  Walk a bit further, and pass two purple awnings over windows on your right.  Now keep walking past a long section of scaffolding on your right, and you are almost there.  

After you have passed the scaffolding, walk a little bit further, and look to your right for a store with red lettering and red posters in its windows.  Walk forward until you can see the open door of this shop, and Touchdown will be sitting on top of an orange neon sign (with words and numbers) in the window just to the left of the open door. Align yourself with the silver building on your left and the brown building on the right with the open gate. Make a right at the traffic light, following the median on your left and stop after passing the first traffic light. Touchdown will be on the ground, at the base of the green pole that holds the red sign to your right, in front of the gray building. turn until you see a street with a row of blue bikes, you want to head down that street all the way to the intersection. At the intersection take a right, the building on your left will have scaffolding, the building on your right has a white circle on the logo, the bear is on that circle Rotate to face forward with the flow of traffic.

Proceed to the next intersection.
Turn right at the intersection

Proceed to the next intersection.
Turn right at the intersection

Proceed forward a short distance, roughly an eighth of a block.
Look to your right as you move forward.
You will notice a purple awning with the image of a human eye.
When you are as close to the awning as you can be, stop.

The bear is sitting in the middle of the image of the human eye on the purple awning.
 Orient yourself with traffic and turn right at the first intersection. The deli and grocery and a subway entrance will be on your right and a diner on your left. Go to the end of the block until just reaching the intersection but do not enter it. Across the intersection is a row of blue bicycles parked near two green/gray mailboxes on the left. Touchdown is on the rear wheel of the first bike in the row.  Move in the same direction as the cars. Go straight through the intersection. There will be an orange and white striped barrier on the right. Keep going straight. Turn right at the stop sign. At the next intersection, keep going straight. Stop when you see a checkerboard pattern leading to someone's steps on the left and a building with a green awning on your right.  Touchdown will be in the middle letter of the word written on the front of the green awning. Go with traffic down the one way street. Turn right at the first intersection.
Enter the next intersection and stop. Look right. There is a green trash can next to a large orange sign with black letters. Touchdown is at the opening of the trash can. From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  The shop with the bright green lettering should be on your left.  Walk down this road, and stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to.  

Take a left at this intersection.  A shop with white lettering on a black sign should be on your left and a building with gold lettering should be on your right.  Walk down the main road between these two buildings.  

Stop in the middle of the next intersection you come to, and turn to your left.  Walk down this road, between a shop with square green logos on the right, and a hot dog cart with a red and yellow umbrella on the left.  

Just walk straight down this road.  When you pass a square yellow sign, with black numbers, above a door on your right, you are about halfway there.  

Keep walking, pass an orange and white chimney on your right, and before you get to the intersection, look for a blue and yellow umbrella on the sidewalk to your left.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this umbrella, right where the different colored sections meet. Go with traffic keeping the water on your left.
Go straight at the first intersection.
Stop just before entering the next intersection. 
A green trash can will be in front of you on the right corner. Touchdown is sitting in the opening of the green trash can.

 Turn so the brick firehouse is on your right and the bridge is straight ahead.  Travel under the bridge then turn left so the elevated road is on your left.  At the next intersection turn left again to travel back under the underpass.  Travel across the first intersection and turn left when the road comes to a T intersection.  Follow that narrow road and stop before you enter the intersection.  Look to your right and there are red barrier poles near the openings in the building.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the red pole closest to the left corner of the building, closest to the intersection. Position yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic. A small outdoor vendor with a bright blue canopy will be on your left. Turn right at the first intersection that's only a short distance ahead. After you turn, scaffolding will be on your left and two small trees will be on the sidewalk on your right. 

Stay straight on this road until you get close to the next intersection. The light-colored building on your left side just before the intersection has several small painted pictures on it in a row. On one of these painted pieces is a big red balloon. Touchdown is placed on the red balloon. Stand so that the bus stop is to your left. Move forward. You will pass straight through a 3-way intersection and then a 4-way intersection. Then, before the next intersection, on your left you will come to a brick building with an open area for truck loading. There is a gray door next to a pile of boxes. Touchdown is in the center of the gray door. Orient yourself so that you are facing a mailbox, with some scaffolding to your far left.  Move forward onto the street that has the scaffolding on the left.  

Head all the way down the street and into the first intersection.  Turn left at this intersection.  There will be a pink kiosk on your right and some blue bikes on the left.  Move forward so that you are standing with the pink kiosk on your right and the start of the bike rack with the blue bikes on your left.  Turn left slightly and look for a red and white sign with a horizontal arrow on it.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this sign. Align yourself with the flow of traffic based on the parked card. Head all the way down the street and make a right. Just before the next intersection, you should see a green awning on your left, in between two grown trees. Touchdown is in the front middle of the awning. Go with traffic to the intersection. Turn right at that first intersection. On your left will be some graffiti on a building and on the right is a building with really nice double wooden doors. Go straight. You will reach an intersection and need to go straight through that one. When you reach the second intersection take a right. On your right side will be a yellowish building and on the left an artistic painted building. Go straight about 2/3 down this block. On the left you will see blue fencing. Touchdown is in the middle of the opening in the blue fence on the sidewalk. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, there should be poles in the middle of the road to your left. Head up to the intersection and make a right. You should have two giant red stylized signs on your left for the same place, head down this street to the intersection, and make another right.

Shortly after on your left, there should be a pink biked tied to a sign post, in front of a red storefront with revolving doors. Touchdown is on the seat of the bike. Turn so you going with traffic. At the nearby intersection go straight. At the next intersection take a right. You will traveling on a cobblestone street.Go one block. Take another right. Go straight passing all the construction on the right side of the street. When you come to the next intersection go straight. At the next intersection take a right. You will see a red sign on the left with a giant yellow m. Go past this stopping at the next intersection. Across the street there is a red pole by the light post. Touchdown is sitting on top of the red pole.  Turn in the direction of traffic and walk to the intersection. Turn right.

There is an empty storefront with red signs all over on your left. Walk to the end of the block and turn right.

Now you'll have a set of stairs descending underground on the right. The railing and globes are all green. Walk down this long block. As you come towards the end, look on the right. Ahead, near the corner is a long black awning coming out over the pavement. Before that is a set of stairs going up to a building. Touchdown is on the very top of the railing on the right side of the stairs. On your left should be to trash cans or recycling bins one has a green top one is a blue top. On the right is a huge building that looks like it's made of mirrors. You are going to cross through the intersection and remained straight.
This is going to sound weird however you come to the next intersection you will have to go cross through then veer back to the right to be able to make a left turn. You will want to make this left turn. If you made the proper turn on your right hand side you will see a parking garage that goes underground of a white building. The white building is made of bricks. On your left you're going to see a building with a garbage chute with orange and white barriers around.
Now that you are on the street continue straight until you reach the next intersection. Cross into this intersection. On the right hand corner across the street you will see a black building and has a green and white logo and touchdown is sitting in front of the logo. Please turn around to face the intersection.  A phone booth with an orange poster should be on your right.  Walk forward a step into the intersection.  You can now turn to your right and walk down the main road, keeping a shop with a dark red awning on your right.  Stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to.  

Turn to your right.  A shop with a black sign and a logo of two circles should be on the right.  Walk forward past this shop, and you should next see a shop with glowing gold letters on your right. 

Keep moving forward, and pass straight through a small intersection.  The blue scaffolding should stay on your left as you pass through.  Keep going straight for a while.  Pass a white car that is parked on the sidewalk under some scaffolding on your right.  

Keep moving forward, and you will see three orange construction barriers on your right.  On the left, is a shop with a neon green sign.  Touchdown the Bear is sitting on top of the last green letter of that sign.
  Go down the street with big tan building covered in blue fencing on the right. Go past that building, keeping it on the right. Go past the construction barriers on the right, continue through the next intersection. Keep going down that road where there is a green wall on the left, and truck trailers parked in a lot to the right. Go to the corner and turn right, the only way you can turn there. Go past the park with the large seating area on the left. As you reach the next street, there is a stop sign to the left that Touchdown will be on top of.  Walk into oncoming traffic to the intersection, but don't enter it.  Look across the street, to the corner to your right, where there will be a line of trash cans, the first with a neon green lid, the second with a neon blue. Touchdown is sitting on top of the neon blue trashcan lid across the street. From the starting position in the middle of the intersection, turn so the scaffolding is on your right. Move down the one-way street in the direction of traffic, and you'll pass a few armored cars on your right. At the first light/intersection, turn right. You'll see some orange construction barriers on your right. Continue down the street until you reach an intersection and a street light. Just before the light, you'll see a newsstand on the corner to your left. In front of the newsstand, there are some packs of bottle drinks. Touchdown is on the tallest stack. You will be moving with traffic, to your right is a gray building with teal colored accents under each window going up the building, there are metal barriers to your left. continue to the 1st T, take a right, there are orange dumpsters and construction barriers on your right.  Top straight through the next intersection, there is access to an underground parking garage on your left, as you move ahead you will see the exit to the same parking garage followed by a yellow awning.  past that to your right is a window outlined in purple neon under scaffolding, once you pass the scaffolding you will see a tree and plants planted in the sidewalk, the bear is at the base of the tree From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the opposite direction as the cars on your street (you should be looking directly into the headlights of the oncoming traffic).  There will be a parking lot for buses on your left and another empty lot on your right.

Just walk straight up this street, against traffic, until you come to an intersection.

Turn to your left in the middle of this intersection, and take a step into a wide one-way street.  Again, you should be looking into the headlights of oncoming traffic.  

You should see a black fire hydrant with a silver cap on the sidewalk to your left, between two short silver poles.  Touchdown is sitting right on top of this hydrant. Follow traffic, go right at the light, and stop before you enter the crosswalk at the next one.  On either side of the street are buildings with black awnings, but on the right there's a huge pink and red lobster, slightly ahead of you.  Touchdown is between its pincers.  Turn to go with the flow of traffic and step into the intersection.  Turn right and you should see a large truck on the right, go forward.

The median up ahead should have bikes on it. Step forward until you can turn and the street will magically change from a median to a full intersection.

Turn right and you should be behind a truck that is open at the back and a funky mural of a person on the right with bright yellow cones.

Go until you're at the next intersection and turn right.

You should see a red awning up ahead on the right and beyond that a yellow store sign on the right.

When you step into the intersection with the yellow store sign and red awning, turn right and you should see large grated doors on the right.

Step forward until you're next to a silver vehicle with a traffic cone on top of it on your left.

Behind that you will see what appears to be a red fire alarm at street level.

Touchdown is on that red structure. Turn so your back is to the intersection and you are going the correct way down this narrow road. Go straight to the end of the block then make a left turn. Go straight one block then make another left turn. You will see a stone wall with a brick center on the right side. Go most of the way down this block. You will pass a fenced parking lot on the left side. On the right side is a black iron fence. When you are almost to the end of that come to a stop. You should still be just behind the last corner of it and can see the stone and brick building with bars on the windows ahead. There is a black rectangle on that building. Touchdown is in the middle of that rectangle.  Turn so the dumpsters are on your left, and move forward to the intersection.  Turn left, and then go to the next intersection and turn right.  Go one short block to the intersection with the light, and turn left.  On this street, go straight through one intersection.  At the next intersection, stop right in the middle.  Look for the corner that has the building with a stone facade and bright blue flags over the sidewalk.  The bear is in the middle of the blue flag closest to the corner.   Align yourself with traffic and walk forward until you see a four way intersection. Take a right there. Walk past the three way intersection and stop at the four way intersection on this road. Take a right here. Continue down this road until just before the next intersection. Touchdown is on the far left of the orange awning above a storefront. Go in the direction that will place the pink crystal sculpture to the left of you. At the next intersection make a left, go straight and you will pass a bunch of parked bicycles on your right. Go straight through the next intersection, you will see red letters on the building to the right of you. At the next intersection, turn left. Just past this intersection you will see a white station wagon like vehicle parked on the right next to the blue mailbox, stop just before this vehicle. Turn to the left and you will see a black fire hydrant with a white top at the curb. Touchdown is at the top of this fire hydrant. Go with traffic to the light and then go left. (Yes, this one's bugged, but it's doable)
Do it again.
And once more.

Pass much graffiti on your right and then left, and a small playground behind a chain-link fence on your right until the first window of that building, just past the ramp with the black fence guard rails, is on your right.
 
Face left. Right of the steel overhead doors with graffiti is a grey door with a diamond shaped window, with the only the blackness of oblivion seen behind it.

Touchdown is affixed center of the diamond window of the grey door.
 Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Turn left at the next intersection.  This will put some bright blue video signs up ahead on the left.
Turn left at the next intersection which is at those blue video signs.
Go forward keeping your eye on the left side of the street.  You'll pass some bright red awnings.  When you get to the dark red awning you'll notice a fire hydrant in front of it with a silver cap.  Touchdown is on the silver cap. Turn so you are moving with traffic. At the first intersection take a right. Move up the block, going straight through the first two intersections you run into. At the third intersection take a right. As you move down the block, look for a building on the right with a green front and 4 large flag like banners on the second floor. Go passed this building and stop in front of the first tree you see on the right. It should be just passed the building and the tree is still small and tied to a couple stakes. The touchdown is at the base of the tree, on the ground, between the right stake and the tree.  Turn to face the closest intersection. Walk into the intersection and turn left. Walk down the long block. You'll pass through an intersection, keep going on the same road. At the next intersection, you'll see a park on the far left corner. Turn left so the park stays to your right. About half way down the street, there is a round blue sign with a bus symbol on it. Touchdown is on that sign. Start out moving in the direction of the traffic. At the first intersection, make a left turn. When you get to the next intersection, make another left turn. As you head down this street, look to the left. You will pass a CVS pharmacy. You will then see an extension ladder going up to a green facade of a building. Touchdown the bear is sitting on the fourth rung form the bottom of the extension ladder. Turn to where you're going with the flow of all the traffic. There should now be a huge building with large pillars on the left. Go straight and turn left at the first intersection. 

Go straight again and turn left again at the very next intersection. 

Plants in concrete pots should now be on your left. Go straight down this road and turn left again at the next intersection. 

There should be a huge white semi truck on your right. Go forward to the very end of this street just before the intersection and stop. Turn around and the touchdown is on the front right(your right) headlight of the red parked car. Align yourself so that the phone booth and red posts are on your right, and the yellow chairs are on your left. Head straight through the first intersection, and make a left at the second. You should be passing through some construction barrels on each side. 

Head to the intersection and stop. On the other side of the street on your right, you should see two trash bags next to a black trash bin. Touchdown is on the bin. Orient yourself with the flow of traffic. At the end of the block, take a left, and then another left at the next intersection. Less than halfway down the block, there is a red dumpster on the left underneath green scaffolding. Touchdown is on the bottom left corner of the white sign with blue lettering on the scaffolding directly above the front corner of the dumpster. Turn away from the intersection and go with traffic. There are bright blue lights on the storefront up ahead on the left. At the upcoming intersection, go right. Pass by the potted green plants to your left and continue on, also seeing white tents along the street on your left. At the next intersection, go right. After entering the street, you will see a green and yellow flag in front of you on the building to your left, and scaffolding ahead on the right. Walk along, passing  to the next intersection. At this intersection, you will need to bare right a bit in order to go straight through. Once you do that, immediately see some fabric in the storefront to your right. Walk ahead and turn to face it directly. See a short pole with a band of light blue paint in front of the window.  Touchdown is sitting on top of that pole.  Walk against traffic, passing the orange building with red awning on your right, until you're at the building with arches on your left.  Rotate left to stare at the first of the lion statues.  Touchdown is in its mouth. Orient yourself so that you are facing away from the intersection, with the silver fence to your right. Move straight down this street. You will pass a building on your left with a mural with light blue background, then a playground and sport courts to your right. There will then be a road veering to the left, but continue straight. Then at the stoplight, you can veer back 3 ways. Veer back to the right and stop. There is a black fire hydrant ahead on your left. Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant. Look for the row of blue bikes and go in this direction. Turn right at the first intersection. Road barriers will be on the right. Turn right  again at the next intersection. Go straight at the next intersection.  Look right and stop just before the store with the blue awing with white letters, also neon signs in the window. Touchdown is sitting on top of the red fire hydrant closest to the door of this store. Orient yourself with traffic on the one-way street. Proceed into the intersection and turn right. Turn right at the next intersection with green scaffolding on your left. Continue straight through one intersection. Turn right at the next intersection with a coffee place on your left. Touchdown is on the first letter of the for rent sign above the coffee place.  From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  A gray canopy with white numbers and letters should be on your right.  Walk straight down this street until you come to an intersection.  

Stop in the middle of the intersection and turn to your left.  You should be looking down a wide, one-way road, and facing the same direction as traffic.  Walk down this road, so that you pass green awnings on your left and black awnings on your right.  

Walk straight through the first intersection you come to, so that the scaffolding stays on your left.  

Keep moving forward, and go straight through the next intersection.  A yellow sign with eyeglasses should stay on your right as you pass through.  

After you pass that yellow sign, move forward a bit further, and look for two vertical purple flags on the sidewalk to your right.  Move forward until you can see the storefront between the two flags, and you will see purple lettering above a window.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the tallest purple letter in the middle of the bunch.   Turn so you are heading with the flow of traffic.  Take the second right.  Then take the next right.  Go through the next intersection and take a couple of steps.  Look right.  There are 3 red and white umbrellas.  The bear is on the top of the middle one. Follow the flow of traffic, where the park is on your right, and make a left when you get to the traffic light. Now the big glass building should be on your right. Follow the traffic and make a left at the light before you pass the billboard on your right. With the scaffolding on your right go down the street and stop before you get to the traffic light. There will be a solo tree on the sidewalk to your left close to the pedestrian crossing sign. Touchdown will be at the base of that solo tree Turn so you are heading with the flow of traffic.  Take the first right.  Go through 1 small intersection (3 way) followed by 1 larger (4 way intersection).  Then turn right at the next.  There will be a bicycle store on your right as you turn.  Pass the basketball courts then stop.  Look right.  There is 1 AC unit in some windows.  The bear is in it. Go with the flow traffic, you'll have scaffolding to your left.  When you get to the next intersection, turn left. You'll go straight through the next two intersections.  You'll turn left at the third intersection you come to.  You'll have scaffolding on your left. There will be a blue and white sign on your left.  It's a vertical sign and a decent size, so you should see it. There's a picture of two people on it.  Touchdown is on that picture. Turn to go with traffic flow. You need to turn left so you are down the road going past the blue awnings that will end up on your right when you turn. But the corner is a little tricky to get there. Don't turn left the first chance, but the second, and it's a hard left. 
When the blue awnings are to your right, you have a choice to go left or right in a fork in the road. Go left. When you are in the correct area, scaffolding is on your left and a black fence on your right. Go down this road, past the scaffolding on the left, ignore the road to the right, past the tan building on the right, past the red brick building after that on the right, down to the next corner.
Turn left. When you turn there is a building with large white pillars and red doors on your left. Go just past that building, and you will see another red door on the left, and going just a bit further is another red door on the left with a black square toward the top of it. Touchdown is on the ground in front of this door.
 Orient yourself with traffic, proceed to the intersection, and turn left. Turn left at the first light again. Make another left at the next light also, but don't quite exit the intersection. Ahead on the right is a fire hydrant with a pattern. Touchdown is on the fire hydrant cap. At the intersection you start at align yourself with traffic and take a right. Move down this road until you reach another three way intersection and take another right. Move forward down this road and pass the first intersection. Move down the road until you see two orange ladders on your left. Touchdown is on top of the leftmost ladder. Turn so you are going with traffic and the bridge is in front of you. Get off the ramp on the right. Keep right at the fork. Go straight and at the intersection go right. Go a short distance until you come to the bus stop on your right. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the bench.  Orient yourself so the white and orange road barriers are on your left side. You should be between two yellow and black pedestrian signs. Follow the street down to the next intersection. Turn left. Go straight for a short distance, to the intersection. Make a left. There will be a lot of graffiti on your right and orange and white road barriers on your left. Continue straight for a while, through the intersection with the black sign with white lettering to the right. Continue straight until you see a window with a cityscape in green, purple, and blue on a window on the right. Just beyond that you will see a red awning with a red fence under it. Touchdown is sitting in the upper left corner of the fence. Turn so that the plant containers and American flags are to your right. Walk straight through the next intersection to the one after it. Turn right when you get there. You should see small trees with yellow lights in front of you to the left.  Walk forward to the next intersection and stand in the middle of it. Turn and face the way you came. You should see a red square post in front of you to the left. Touchdown is on top of the post. position yourself so you are following the traffic direction. Follow the traffic till you reach the intersection. There will be some yellow/blue, yellow/red umbrellas on the right side. Turn right at this intersection. Stop and turn right at the next intersection. Now you should see a store with three windows and grey signs to your left. There are white letters and red symbol on these signs. In front of the store there will be a round planter in front of the second window. the touchdown is on the planter.  heading the same direction where the school bus is going, pass the first intersection. pass the construction zone. at the end of the construction zone, at the end of the construction zone you will see a sign on the green board wall on your right, then we turn around (u-turn). Go to the intersection we passed. Now the construction site will be on your left and at the intersection you will see a white postal truck on your right, turn right. Pass the trucks on side of road and the blue mailbox. continue going until you see a delivery truck on your left and a parking garage. Continue, on your right side you will see 2 motorcycles parked in front of a car on the right side.  next to the motorcycles on the walkway there is a bush and a tree, next to the bush there is a pole holding a sign, sign has white background and red letters and arrow. The touchdown is on the sign.  Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street, and the building with the bright red wall is on your left.  Go forward until you get to an intersection, and turn left.  You'll have a green awning on your right now, and a yellow awning over a closed shop beyond that.  Go forward until you get to an intersection, and turn left again.  
On this block you'll have cars parked perpendicular to the road on your left side.  Go forward to the nearby intersection, and stop right in the center of it.  Just ahead of you on your right is a dark colored fire hydrant.  The bear is on top of the hydrant.  Turn so that the short silver fence is on your right and the rounded metal fence is on your left.  Follow the road past the first intersection and the road will curve slightly.  At the next intersection, turn right.  If you look to the right there should be a red tube in the playground.  Keep going down this road, watching on the left for a basketball court behind a rod iron fence.  There are two bright green signs on that fence.  Touchdown is on the sign on the right, closest to the taller chain link fence on the right.  He is in the middle covering the yellow stripe. Orient yourself with traffic and proceed.  Turn left at the first light. Turn left at the next intersection also. Pass the bike share rack on the left. Pass scaffolding on the right. Stop after passing the metal awning of a brick building on the left, in front of a mailbox on the left. Touchdown is on the top of the mailbox. Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. You should have an intersection right in front of you.

2. Step into the intersection, and take a left. There should be some scaffolding on your left.

3. Follow this road for a while, and take another left at the next intersection. There should be a gray brick building with black awnings on your left.

4. At the next intersection, take another left. On your right, there should be a brown brick building with brown and black overhangs and an orange net. Your destination is near.

5. On the right, you should see a semi-trailer truck with a picture of three bottles on the side. Following that is a black awning, a red awning, two small, blue awnings, and then a brown awning.

6. Stop when you're in front of the brown awning. On the left side of it is a picture of an eye. Touchdown is in the middle of that eye.

Good luck! :) Position yourself so you are following traffic direction , Go to the intersection. A red truck with food picture will be on your left. The brick building will be on your right. Turn right at this intersection. Once you made the turn, go straight till you reach the next intersection, you should see a blue awning with white letters on it to your right. Turn right at this intersection. Once you made the turn, the green awning will be on your right and black awning will be on your left. Go straight now. When you reach the basketball court with red/blue painted ground, look to your left . There will be a main entrance of the building , above the door there is a black banner with a white street number on it. The touchdown is on the number.  Turn so you are going to the right way down the street, passing cars parked diagonally on the left. Go straight until you come to an intersection. Go into the intersection and look across the street for a red structure that looks kind of like a large fire hydrant. It is between 2 tall poles. Touchdown is sitting on top of this red structure.  Orient yourself so you're facing the same way the traffic is moving and the closest intersection is directly behind you.  Walk forward and go straight through the next two intersections.  At the third intersection turn left.  Walk down the street.  On your right is a plywood awning supported by scaffolding.  It changes heights, and then ends for a few store fronts, then starts again.  When you're next to where it starts again, stop.  Turn to your right and look at the first bar that is covered by the awning.  Hanging from the second floor of this bar is large fake dark beer that has gold lettering on it.  The bear is sitting on top of the beer. Face the direction cars are parked.

At the intersection, turn right.  You should be on a narrow one way street, go into the next intersection and turn right again.  You're good if there is a red sign on the right and blue on the left.

At the next intersection, turn right again.  You'll see graffiti on the right and two white mail trucks ahead.

At the next intersection, turn aright one last time. Step forward so you're between the stacks of boxes on the left below a green banner with red writing.

You should see two orange chairs.  Touchdown is on the left one.
 Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and construction barriers are on your right.

Go through the first intersection, past some flags on the right.  At the second intersection, turn right and move forward.

Go down to the first intersection and turn right.  If you can't turn immediately, take one more step forward, then turn right.

Walk forward until you're at the beginning of the scaffolding on the left and stop.

Look left and you should see a blue sandwich board in a doorway.  Touchdown is on that sign board. Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street, and the stop sign is just ahead of you.  Go forward to the intersection and turn right.  You'll have a brick building on your right and the park on your left.  Go straight through the first intersection you come to, and right at the second one.  You'll now have a place with people painted all over the walls on your right.  Beyond that, also on the right, are bright blue and yellow store fronts.  Go to the end of this block (movie theater straight ahead of you at the T), and turn right.  You now have a basketball court on your right.  This is a short block.  Go toward the intersection, and stop just before you're standing on the crosswalk.  On your right there are two newspaper dispensers, one green and one blue.  The bear is on top of the green one.  Turn so the parking lot is on  your left and the construction scaffolding is on your right.  Move forward to the intersection and turn left.  
On this block you should see a flower shop to your left.  Go forward one short block to the next intersection, and turn left.  
You'll now have construction scaffolding on the left that is decorated with twigs and twinkle lights.  There will be murals on your right.  Partway down this block, you'll come to a pedestrian mall or open plaza on the right.  Go just past that, and then stop.  You'll be right next to the edge of a red brick theater building on your right.  If you're facing the brick building, there is a large tree just to your right, very close to you.  The bear is sitting on the ground at the base of the tree, closest to you. Move with traffic to the first intersection and turn left. Now pass the mailbox on your right and go forward to the next intersection. Turn left again.

As you turn, you should have a green trashcan on your right, in front of a store with a faded white-ish sign. Move forward until you are about halfway down the block, and just in front of you, on the right, is a short gray post with a blue stripe near the top. Face left and you should be even with a hanging white flag, above a black store. The black store is right after a red and then black awning. Touchdown is on the middle of the white flag. Face the direction where the right sidewalk has a green covering over it. Go to the intersection and make a right turn at it. There is a black awning extending over the sidewalk on the right side. At the next intersection take a right turn again. You will pass construction and a make shift sidewalk on your left. When you come up to an intersection, take another right turn. At the end of the street before the next intersection, the building on the right has red awnings. Take another right turn and the red awnings will be on the right side again. The touchdown is on the front corner of the last red awning on the right side.  With the water to your left, go straight.  Look ahead, seed the large green and yellow sign over the road, you'll go past the first one. When you get under the second green and yellow sign, touchdown will be on the yellow part on the arrow on the right. From the starting position turn to your left such that you are facing away from the nearest intersection. You'll see a few red signs with numbers on them to your right in the distance. Travel down the street in this direction. Continue down the street until you get to the first intersection. At that light, turn right after the large building with stone bottom and brick top. After turning right, continue a short way down the street until the first intersection you see. Turn right at the light down the one-way street. Immediately after turning down the street, you'll see a red street sign with white letters on your right near the entrance to a building. Touchdown is on that sign. Go with the flow of traffic.  Go to the first intersection and turn left.  There will be a huge American flag off to your right side as you turn.  Go to the next intersection and turn left again.  There will be green plywood walls on your left after you turn.  Head down this street, watching for a spot where the two lanes divide.  Thin white poles be to the right of you.  Stop immediately after you pass the very first of these.  Turn 45-60 degrees to your left.  There will be a black hydrant with a white top on the sidewalk.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this hydrant.   If you're in the right position you will see a black building on your left with a red and white awning they have a red sign with another sign below it which is red with white letters. Behind you on your left you will see place that has a blue sign with pictures of food. You will be heading straight away from the blue sign with the food pictures and parallel the black building with the red letters.
If you are going the correct way you will see a building with a blue awning on your left on the corner of the next intersection. Across the street from that on your right is a playground with green equipment.
You will continue straight.
Continue straight through the next intersection.
When you go through this intersection to your right you will see a silver chain link fence with brick buildings behind it. On the left you will see a brick building with a white base and a regular colored red brick top.
Just before reaching the end of the silver chain link fence on your right you will see a white colored trailer within the fence. Touchdown is on the back corner of that trailer. He is on the top of the trailer on the corner. Orient yourself with traffic and drive forward. Pass by a small tunnel of sorts on the left through a building and pass over a pedestrian crosswalk. Pass by the green space on the left and turn right at the light. Continue forward and pass by a musically painted dumpster on the right and a white tent on the left. At the end of the barricade in the street, turn right at the light. At the start of the barricade in the road on this street, stop. Touchdown is on top of the cylinder cone at the start of this barricade. Turn and go in same direction as traffic. Go straight at intersection and turn left at next intersection. Tan building with black and blue on the right. Pass some scaffolding on the left.Pass a playground area is on the right. On the right you will see a store that is black with green awnings and flowers out front.  Stop when you are in front of the black door past the awnings. Touchdown is sitting on the air conditioner left of the black door.  1. Orient yourself so that you are facing a bridge/overpass and there is a red bus on your right.
2. Go forward passing the intersection and under the first overpass.
3. Make a diagonal turn to the right to get onto the bridge. There should be a diamond-shaped yellow walk sign on your left.
4. Go up the on ramp and onto the bridge.
5. You will merge with traffic coming onto the bridge from the left.
6. Pass a streetlamp on your left with a yellow diamond-shaped left turn sign on it.
7. Pass another streetlamp on your left.
8. At the next streetlamp, stop and look up. Touchdown is located on the lamp/light part of the streetlamp.

 Follow the flow of the traffic and go to the intersection and take a left. You should see a white van to the left of you and in front of you. Go to the intersecton and get into it. You should see the lit up walking sign. Your touchdown will be in the middle of that.  With the bells on the median to your left, go straight and take a left at the next set of bells. Go straight and take a left after the bikes.Go straight until nearly at the next intersection. Touchdown is on a swirl in between some stars ot the right. Move with the flow of traffic into the middle of the intersection you are next to, and turn right. Now move with traffic down this long block. You should pass several closed stores, then scaffolding on the left, followed by a black store with neon red lights on your right. At the intersection, turn right and stop. Face left and there is a red newspaper stand. Touchdown is on top of the newspaper stand. Turn and follow the flow of traffic.  Take your first left.  At the first 4 way intersection (That you can turn at) stop in the middle.  Look to the left side.  There is 1 orange cone.  The bear is on top. Follow traffic. Pass the off ramp on the right.  Stop after passing the yellow diamond sign on the right, and the long white building on the left. 
Rotate left.
Far on the other side of the water is a single very high pipe. Touchdown is atop it. Turn so the sidewalk lined with short metal posts is to your right. Go left at the first intersection you come to. The building to your right will be brightly colored in yellows, greens and reds. Go left at the next intersection. There will be flowers for sale on your right after turning. Halfway down the street, pass a parking lot on your left. There is a green iron fence along the building to your right, go past it. Stop just before getting to the big gated driveway on the right. Turning to look at it, find Touchdown in the middle of the painted yellow circle on the top right side of the gate.  Turn and go in the same direction of the traffic. Cars parked to the right. Go straight thru intersection. Turn left at next intersection. Orange and white barriers on left and scaffolding on the right. Turn left at intersection.Purple stripped awning to the right.  Some yellow netting on the right. When you get to the end of the yellow netting there is a orange and white cone behind. Touchdown is sitting on top of the cone.  Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic, and head to the nearest crosswalk.  Continue straight.  Continue past the tunnel entrance on your right.  When the street ends, turn left.  On your right there is white siding (Tarp) that is blocking the construction.  When you are about halfway across is, turn around and face across the street.  There is a bright pink piece of paper on the ground.  The bear is there. There should be a red dump truck on your left and a red van on your right. Go straight toward the round columns in the sky. Go through the intersection. Just past the mail truck is a road to your left. Veer to your left and there will be a white can trying to parallel park. Turn completely around right next to that van and there will be a road with a 6 letter word written in white. Go to the intersection and turn left. There will be a store on your right and flowers on your left. Go past that and there will be garbage on the sidewalk on your right.  Touchdown is on the red dot next to the fire hydrant. Turn and go in same direction as traffic. Turn right at this intersection. Scaffolding with green board to the left.  Bike rental on the left. Turn right at intersection.On each side of the street is green stairs that go underground. Turn right at intersection. Up ahead on the right is a red awning that comes out to the street. Stop when you get in front of the blue and white awning on the right. Touchdown is sitting on the pole with the blue strip around it.  Go with traffic. A building with blue windows will be on the right. Turn left at the first intersection and cross over into the next intersection and keep straight across that lane of traffic.Turn left at the next intersection, a building with a yellow awing on the corner. Look right and stop next to the open and broken light blue fence on with crosses on top. Inside the fence is a black mail box on the wall. Touchdown is sitting on top of the black mailbox. Follow the traffic through the intersection.  Then take the next left (Into oncoming traffic).  Then take the next left.  You will see a green sidewalk overhang on the right, pass it.  Then two flags on your left.  Stop just as you reach the 2nd.  On your left is a box of dirt.  In front of the dirt is a cone with 2 orange stripes.  The bear is on top.  Stand so that you are facing the large bridge in the distance. You will walk along this road for a long time. Move ahead, passing many large buildings on your right. When you pass a large white building on your right, you are getting close. Right after the white building is a blue dumpster. Continue until you are just past the brick building after the white building, and stop. From here, look towards the blue dumpster. Touchdown is on the end of the dumpster. Turn so you go with traffic flow and the red brick building with green awnings is to your right. 
Continue straight, going past the cluster of flags to your left.
Continue straight again going past the orange barriers on your right. 
At the next corner, turn left. The intersection is someone angled. When you turn scaffolding will be on your right.
Continue down this road, going through the first intersection you come to. You will notice more scaffolding up on your right. A little further down you will see a brown/gray awning over white arched doors on the right. Touchdown is on the top arch of that awning.


 Stand so that the black fence with gold tips is on your right. Go forward to the intersection and turn right. Continue on this street as it curves and goes under an overpass. Then you'll see 2 green signs coming up above you. To their right is a yellow square sign. Touchdown is on that yellow sign. Turn so the park is on your right. Follow traffic down this one way street and turn right at the first 4 way intersection you arrive at.  You'll now have a park on your left and construction on your right.  Follow this road, passing through the first intersection and turn right at the next intersection.  There will now be a green awning on your left.  Stop just before you reach the purple flag to the right of the green awning.  There is a white A frame sign to the left of the purple flag on the sidewalk.  Touchdown is sitting on top of that sign. Hello there!

1. Begin by turning around completely so that you're going with the flow of traffic. There should now be a white and orange construction barrier to your right.

2. Begin moving forward, passing through the first intersection. When you get to the next intersection (a three-way), take a right.

3. When you reorient yourself, there should be a white building with square windows to your right and a park to your left. Moving forward, pass through the next intersection (another three-way), and take another right at the four-way intersection after that.

4. Reorienting yourself, you should find the first of two churches (the first is reddish-brown) to your right and a light gray building with long rectangular windows to your left. Your destination is close. Begin moving forward until you start nearing the next intersection.

5. Keep in mind the churches to your right. When you see that the double-arched entrance to the second, lighter-colored church is directly to your right, stop. Look to the right of this church, and you should see a blue and white flag hanging down from a horizontal flagpole. Touchdown is in the very middle of this flag.

Good luck! :) With the cement block wall to your right, follow traffic.  It's a very busy street. Go straight through the intersection. There are Chinese lanterns hanging along the buildings. At the next intersection, go right.  After going under the bridge, turn around and go back where you came from. Now through the bridge, enter the intersection and look down the street on your left. There is a V. Stay right as you proceed through this intersection. The corner store on the right has pictures of food. Go straight past it. Stop right at the crosswalk before the next intersection and look to your left. There is a small black rectangular sign with a person's picture on it, on the gray, empty, storefront. Touchdown is on the person's face in the picture.  Turn so you are going with traffic. Head down the street. Go straight through the first light you see. At the light you will see a pyramid of red Christmas ornament to your right. Take a right in front of these. Stop before you get to the light. Touchdown is on top of the top Christmas ornament now on your left.  Turn towards the intersection your next to and hang a right.  You should see scaffolding ahead in the distance on the right.
You will pass a brick building with some flags on it and blue trimmed windows.
At the next intersection you will see a black pedestrian bridge between two buildings.  Turn right.  Head down to the next intersection and stop in the middle of it.  On the corner where the green brick building is you will find Touchdown hiding out in the black wire trash can. Turn so you are going with traffic. There is sign on a store to your right with a golden M. Go straight. At the light take a right. Go straight. At the next intersection take a right. On the right there is a fancy looking gold entrance to a building. Stop at the building before that. Touchdown is on the middle point of the clock above the revolving door.in the fancy gold entrance.  Turn to face with traffic, then proceed a very short distance to the intersection; there will be a row of blue bikes in front of you. Now turn right, and go that way for two blocks. There should be a tallish blocked off orange traffic thing in front of you on the left, along with a food cart. Turn right again, and go forward until on your left is the door to a store with an orange banner in the window--if you reach the intersection, you've gone too far. There should be a light post between two trees, Touchdown is in front of the light post. Turn so the scaffolding is to your right and follow traffic to the end of the block.
Go right. At the end of the next block, go right again.

There'll be a large play area on the left side of the street; walk until you're even with the last slide, so you can turn left and stare at it directly. You'll see a very shiny metal twisty slide portion; touchdown is sitting on the shiny inside curve facing you. Turn yourself so you are facing down a one way street that has a green awning on a building on the left side of the street. But do not go down this street. Move into the intersection and turn right.  You will be going down a wide one way street with an intersection just up ahead. Go into this intersection and turn right. There will be part of the road torn up and some orange cones and construction signs right as you turn. Continue straight until you reach a streetlight, turn right. Go straight down this street with trees on the right side of the road. Continue straight until you see an intersection with a light up ahead. Right before you get to the intersection, you will see an orange construction barrier and a concrete barrier on the left. There is a port a potty behind these two barriers. Touchdown is sitting on top of this port a potty.  Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Head to the nearest intersection.  Turn right.  Then take the next right.  Take a few steps while looking right.  Look for a giant tomato.  The bear is on the stem. Turn to where the guy with the boxes is on your right. Start heading down the street and take a left at the first intersection. Go straight again and turn left at the next intersection onto the street and stop. On your left there is a purple box car parked. The bear is on the taillight closest to you on the purple car. Go in the same direction as traffic.  Move forward to the first intersection. Turn right.  There will be a brick building on your right that is red and tan brick in a striped pattern.  Proceed to the next intersection.  Turn right.  There will be scaffolding on your left.  Go to the next intersection and turn right again.  There will be a building with a darker gray first story and tan above that on your right.  Go to the next intersection.  Turn right again.  This time there will be red brick buildings on both sides of you.  Shortly after you turn there will be orange construction cones in the street.  Stop right after you pass the first set of three of them that are in a line perpendicular to the street; don't go past the red truck that is parked in front of them.  Turn to your right.  There is a shop with lots of lights in the window.  Above the dark brown doors to the shop is a window with three silver lights.  Touchdown is sitting on the silver shade of the middle one of these lights.   Turn so you are traveling with traffic (there are some cones blocking part of the street on your left). Go down this street. At the light take a right. On this street you will see a red cooler and blue bin on the sidewalk to your right. Go straight. At the intersection go straight. Stop in about half a block. You will see the next traffic lights in the distance and a building on your right with an american flag hanging outside. On the right there there is a fire hydrant. Touchdown is sitting atop the fire hydrant on the right side of the street. There is a white truck parked across the street.  Turn so you are going with traffic. At the light ahead take a right. Go straight all the way down this street. Turn left in the intersection and stop. There is a row of colorful newspaper machines on the left side of the street. Touchdown is sitting on top of the yellow newspaper box.  Face so the graffiti covered truck is on your left. Go through the first junction, past the orange and while construction barrier on your left, and turn left at the second intersection.  There will be a gas station on the far corner as you make the turn.  Go forward a single block and turn left.  There'll be a bike rack sparsely populated by blue bicycles on your right.  You'll pass a construction zone on your left.  Stop just after you pass the end of the construction.  Look right, between two buses, and you'll see a graffiti covered wall.  On the sidewalk will be a round manhole cover with a smaller rectangular cover next to it.  Touchdown is on this rectangular cover. With traffic, go to the light and right.  Pass through the next light and go right at the second one. 

There will be a brown brick building with a second pink second floor and reddish sills at the top of the windows to your right.  Stop before reaching the end of the courts on your left, when you have the building with the blue and brown tiles ahead and to your right.

Rotate right. You should be staring at windows with wavy white lines over green metal bars, and see a white door to the left, before the blue and brown tiles. Further left, over a smaller window with wavy white bars, is an air conditioner. 

Touchdown sits atop the A/C unit in that window. From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing an intersection, and the orange and white walls are on your right.  Move forward and take a right at the intersection.  You should now be walking down a narrow street with a large red cargo box on the left.  Walk past that red box, and past a large pile of trash bags, until you come to another intersection.  

Turn right at this intersection, and walk down the narrow street with rows of parked cars on both sides, and a white flag with a purple logo hanging from a wall on the left.  You should be facing the same direction as those parked cars.

At the next intersection, turn right.    You should now be walking down a road that has a brick surface, and on the left, you should see a similar flag to the one you saw earlier, only this time the flag is mostly purple and the lettering is white.

Walk down this brick road until you come to an intersection. Walk into the middle of the intersection and turn right.  You should see a yellow and white construction barrier on the right, and a white and green truck parked on the left.  Take just a single step into this road, but then turn around and look back at the intersection.  

You should see a silver ladder leaning against the building with purple flags and scaffolding.  Touchdown is sitting right at the top of this ladder. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Turn left where the street dead ends and you see a lot of orange/white cones and barriers in the intersection to the left.  Hang another left at the next intersection so you are moving into oncoming traffic.
Go straight through the next intersection.  You should see a lot of graffiti on the wall behind the trees.  Stop at the last arrow painted on the ground pointing right.  Ahead on your right you should see black and white bells on the median.  Touchdown is hiding on the nearest bell to you.
 Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Turn right at the next intersection.  You will have large barrier cones stacked up on the right and regular barriers with scaffolding to the left.
Turn right at the next intersection as well.  There will be orange topped awnings on the right.  Move forward and stop right where the blue building on the left meets the beige building that is all brick above the first floor.  Directly in front of you on the right is a white sign with black text.  Touchdown is hiding here. follow the direction of traffic. heading to the building which has some orange clothes/net hanging on the front on your right. Go pass this intersection, stop at the next intersection. You will see blue/white boards on your right side and construction behind them when you are at the right intersection. So turn right here, you should be on a street with blue brick walls on your left and the construction fence with white and orange strips on your right. Go forward until you see a white door on the blue brick wall. On the left of the door you can see a white sign with black letters, the touchdown is on that sign.  Turn to face forward with the flow of traffic.

Proceed forward to the next intersection.
Turn right at the intersection.

Proceed forward to the next intersection
Turn right at the intersection

Proceed forward to the next intersection
Turn right at the intersection

Proceed forward roughly 1/3 of the length of the way to the next intersection.
To your right you will see a covered bus bench.
If you pass the bench, you have gone too far and should take a step back.

The bear is sitting on the middle seat of the bus bench.
 Turn so you are facing the two lane road, with the shop with green awning in front and to the right. Go down this road - there will be four blue banners on the right just past the green awning. Keep going until the end of the block. At that intersection you'll turn left. Now you'll be heading with the one-way traffic. You'll go down until you're almost even with the front edge of the first bus shelter. Touchdown is on the top corner nearest you. Follow traffic, with the white pillared building to your left and scaffolding ahead to your right. Go left at the dual stop signs when you reach the T-intersection. Go right at the light, now walking into traffic. Go right at the light, passing green walls and k-walls on your left, and stickers with the devil on the building on your right.  Go right at the light.

There should be white pillars to your left and four very dark storefronts to your right. Stop just before passing the yellow sign on your right, so you're even with the door of the dark green building before the light grey one.  

There's a round red thing, maybe a bell, between the window and the door. Touchdown is on it. Hello. Please orient yourself with the flow of traffic. To your left, there will be a light stone building with red doors. To your right is a large white bus. 

Walk forward to the four-way intersection. Turn left.

To your right, you will see a green subway stairwell with two green poles with yellow and green circles on top.

Walk forward until you encounter a three-way turn. Please shift to your right. Now you can continue straight again. 

At the next three-way turn, continue straight ahead.

You will arrive at a three-way intersection. You will be facing a median with lots of plants and trees. Turn left.

Walk forward, passing by a park with benches to your left. 
At the next four-way intersection, go straight through it.

Shortly after, you will encounter one more four-way intersection. Please orient yourself to your left so that you face the path there. To your left, there will be a red brick building with red awning and tall wooden doors. There are also pink planter boxes with flowers in them. Walk straight down this path.

Keep an eye on your right side as you walk forward. You will pass a building with two blue awnings. Up above them, there are two rainbow flags on a pole. Please stop when you are standing slightly in front by near the rainbow flags. 

Touchdown will be on top of the pole with the two rainbow flags. Good luck! Go with the flow of traffic and go up to the intersection and take a right. As you go down, you should see a huge store on your right, and lots of bikes on bike racks, and theres a delivery truck emptying stuff. Go to the next intersection and then take a right. There's a brownish reddish building on the right. Go up a little bit as you're behind the white car. You should see two boxes on the ground next to the tree. Your touchdown will be on top of the big box.  Turn so you are facing the same direction traffic is driving on this one-way street.  Proceed forward and turn right at the first intersection.  There will be a store with distressed wood siding on your right now.  Follow this road until you almost reach the next intersection.  Watch the lefthand side for a yellow flag, then go past the brown brick building to the red one.  There is a garage door open on that building with yellow and orange guards near the bottom of the door.  Touchdown is sitting on the orange point of the guard on the right, beside the black garbage can. Turn so the building on the corner with the green construction is on your right.  Proceed down that road  and turn right at the first intersection.  Travel down that road, there will be a lot of orange construction barriers in the middle.  At the intersection turn right again.  Now there is a colorful wall on your right, continue down that road.  Pass through the first intersection and stop just before you enter the second intersection.  Look to the corner on the right, there is a single light post with a white arrow sign.  At the base of the lamp post is a garbage can.   Touchdown is sitting right in the middle near the top of the garbage can. Turn so the scaffolding is on your right. Go to the corner and turn right. 

Just as you turn there is a rectangle white sign with big black numbers on it and some lettering. Touchdown is on top of this sign.  Turn so you are facing the building with colorful rectangles on it.  Head down this street. When you come to the first intersection take a left. Head straight down this street a short distance to the next intersection. Take a left here in front of a store with a fushia colored sign background.Go down this street a short distance. On the right there is a storefront that is red. It is red above and below the windows. Touchdown is on top of the plant to the most right. Travel with the cars. Make sure the tree is on the right side. Go straight until the intersection and turn left. There will be a red post on the right corner after turning. At the next intersection take another left. There will be bikes parked at some of the racks on the left side. Go straight through the next intersection. There will be a white work van parked on the left side of the road. On the sidewalk in front of the van is a green box next to a potted bush. The Touchdown is on the green metal box.  On your left should be a red building with a wooden door. It has a school zone sign in front of it that is yellow. On the right is a blue building with a black fence around it and it also has a yellow school zone sign.
Continue straight until you reach the first intersection then make a left.
Head straight until you reach the first intersection and make a left. 
Go past the colorful fence on your right.
Touchdown is on top of a white sign with red writing on the right beside the brick building with the fences on the windows. The building has blue doors, and if you reach the fence with the green barrier behind it on your right you have went to far.



 Turn to go in the same direction as traffic. Orange and white barricades to the right. Go straight thru the intersection. Turn right at the next intersection. There will be tents on the left side. When you get to the last tent touchdown will be sitting on top at the point on the tent.  Turn so you're facing the back of a delivery truck going the flow of traffic.  Go forward, you'll pass a parking lot on your right.

At the intersection, turn right.  You'll see blue bins on your left and a taxi in the distance.

Go forward until you're in the next intersection and go right.  Keep going until you hit the next intersection and through it just slightly enough to be near the green delivery truck on the right.  Turn around and go slightly to the right (towards the orange barriers).  Step forward and you should see a large light sign almost directly above you.  Step forward until you can see the back side of it and a junction box on the pole below it.

Touchdown is in the middle of the larger junction box on this pole on the left. Turn so the four red awnings are on your right.  Follow the flow of traffic to the first intersection and turn right.  There should be one of the red awnings on your right now.  Follow this road to the next intersection and turn right again.  On this split street you will have construction on your right side.  Follow this road past the first intersection.  Stop when you reach the next intersection, there will be a black chain link fence around a park on your right.  Look all the way to the left and there are two orange rod barriers blocking the road.  Touchdown is sitting in the space in the middle between the two orange barriers, right at the top. Follow the flow of traffic down the street, with the blue framed windows on your left and make a right at the intersection, with the black awning under red letters now on your right. Continue down the street, going through the the intersection and stopping in front of the first set of triangular windows on your right. Touchdown will be on the two blue letters that are under the second triangular window. Align yourself so that the blue storefront is on your right, and head up to the first intersection to make a left. You should make another left shortly after. There will be a red awning with some chairs closed in on your left, head a few steps down , pass the first row of bike racks, and you'll find touchdown sitting on the empty rack, the first one after the break between the two lines of racks, separated by half a rectangle yellow piece on the ground. There should be steps with a black gate directly behind it. Go with traffic.
Turn left at the intersection. ( wide turn, going with traffic  )
Keep straight at next intersection.
Turn left at the next intersection.
Stop when you see school on street (upside down)
Look for a black and gray fire hydrant on the left side.
Touchdown is on top the black and gray fire hydrant 


 Align yourself against the flow of traffic. Head down until the right right turn, and take it. Stop in the next intersection very shortly after, and you should see some red umbrellas on your left. Touchdown is on top of the taller umbrella. Turn to face with traffic, then go to the end of the block and take a left, keeping the schoolyard on your left. Now go to the end of this block, and take another left, around the schoolyard. Go forward until you get to where the school building meets the fence, there will be a tree between you and the school, too. There is a traffic cone on the other side of the fence, Touchdown is on the ground next to it. Go in the same direction as traffic.  Move forward to the first intersection.  Turn left.  You will going in the same direction as traffic, and an all-white storefront will be on your left.  Move forward part of the way down the block.  Move just past the marquee sign of the movie theater on your left.  Stop and turn right.  There is a red door to a restaurant that has a big, bright red awning.  The door has a square window in it and a gold door knob.  Touchdown is sitting on the gold door knob.   Move with traffic until you reach an intersection. Turn left. Then you should have a phone booth on your right, in front of a silver store sign with red letters. Move forward, and turn left at the next intersection (after a row of black awnings on your left). Move forward a it and stop when on your left, you are in front of a red building with black gate, facing a large black circle in the gate. Touchdown is in the middle of the circle. Position yourself, so you will be moving with the flow of traffic. This puts the traffic light directly behind you and a green awning with white lettering on the corner on your right. Turn left at the first intersection you get to. Right after you turn, there will be green dumpsters in a driveway on your right.

Follow this long curvy street until you can see the next intersection up ahead and slow down. Right before the intersection, you'll see green stairs leading down to the subway on  your left. The stairway entrance has a pole on either end with a red and white ball on top. Touchdown is sitting on top of the first red and white ball you arrive at as you approach the intersection. There should be a caged in area to the left. Go ss and take a right at the light. Go ss. Go past the park on your right and take a right. You should now see a building with a greenish first story on the left. Reach the end of it and then go a little bit past until you see a yard with benches to the left. tdd is sitting on the middle bench. Orient yourself against traffic. Turn left when this street ends. Go through the first intersection. Stop in the middle of the next intersection. On your left should be a playground. Touchdown is on the nearest red roof piece. Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic, and head to the nearest intersection.  Turn right, then take the next right.  Continue down this street.  There is a building with red doors on your left.  Pass the last red door and look left.  There is a white AC unit sticking out of the window past the red door.  The bear is on top. Turn so that the glass building is on your right and the concrete pillars are on the left. Go under the tunnel. Turn right when able. Stop just past the stop sign. There will be a circle on one of the glass doors to your right. Touchdown is in the circle. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic so the scaffolding and retaining wall is on your right. Go straight past the row of blue bikes on your left and turn right at the intersection.  Go straight passing some barriers and scaffolding to the next intersection and turn right.  Step out of the intersection and you should see where the scaffolding ends and the building it is on is missing everything above the first floor.  In front of that is a blue phone booth.  Touchdown is hiding in the middle of the large blue display of the phone booth. move with traffic and take a left in the intersection. A store on the left has pictures of food in the windows. Go through two intersections, after the second there will be orange construction barriers on the right, a large white building with scalloped edging is on the right, move to the next intersection, take a left, there is a green awning on the left with numbers on the front, the bear is on the numbers Go with the flow of traffic to the first stop light and turn left. At the next intersection, turn left.  You'll go halfway up this block.  You'll see a small fenced in parking lot between some buildings on your right.  Keep going, a few building up will be a religious place on your right.  There's three wooden arched doors on the  front. Touchdown is above the center wooden door, in the center of the arched window. Go with the flow of traffic to the first intersection and turn to the right.  At the next intersection, turn right.  Go all the way down until you large dumpster parked in the street on your right.  On  your left will be a building that has stained glass windows and red doors.  Go to the second set of double red doors, on the bottom step there is a box with dark ends.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this box. Turn so that the two signs with red circles are to your left. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. You should see two yellow and red umbrellas to your left. Walk forward past the American flag. Walk the tree on the right side of the road and stop right after you pass the glass doors under the black doorway. Face left. You should see a green post with a white and red sign on it. Touchdown is in the middle of the sign. Going with the flow of traffic, enter the intersection ahead and turn right. You'll  see two traffic cones at the business to your left.  Go straight to the next intersection and turn right again. The business to your right will have a red awning with blue and yellow triangle flags hanging from the awning.  Go to the next intersection and turn right.  The building to your left has two garage entrances on it. Touchdown is on the security camera over the first garage door (which has it's door down.) Align yourself with the parked cars flow of traffic. Ignore the first right turn, and head down the second right turn. At the next right, take it.

Again, ignore the turn, and head down most of this street until you see the red door entrances on your right. There should be a blue sticker or sign to the left of the left most door. Touchdown is in the middle of the sticker. position yourself so you are following the traffic direction. Go forward till you reach the first intersection. There will be a blue/white umbrella to your right. Turn right at this intersection. Now you have scaffoldings to your left and two flags hanging on a building to your right. Go straight. When you reach the first intersection, turn right. Now the scaffolding will be on your left. Go straight now. Soon you will see a delivery truck with purple/orange letters parked on the left side and a yellow awning on the right side. There is a skinny orange/white traffic cone on the right side of the road too. The touchdown is sitting on top of that skinny traffic cone.  orient yourself so that you are facing the same direction as the flow of traffic. When you reach the first intersection, go straight through it. keep going straight towards the pale blue awning on your right with the american flags flying up above it. when you reach the intersection take a right. after taking a right you should be situated between trees on your right and left. go straight, towards the building with the green awning and scaffolding work on your right. after moving past that, keep going straight past the brick building with the blue awning on your right. keep going straight, just past the white van parked on your left. move just past the light metallic beige van with the open rear doors on your left. touchdown is on the ground just below its front license plate. Go with traffic flow down the long block to the first corner you come to and turn right. 

Go with traffic flow to almost the next corner. The last tree on this block is to the left of you. Touchdown is at the base of this tree between the two bushes around the base of this tree that is planted in a square wooden planter. First orient yourself to leave the garage. Once you're out of the garage, turn right. You should be going in the direction to traffic. As you walk under the bridge, you'll see a green wall on your right. Turn right. You may need to orient yourself again as this is a fairly odd corner to turn. Once the green wall is on your left, Walk down this street. You'll have construction on your left and a parking garage with pillars, which have yellow on the bottom, on your right. When you see a large sign regarding hospital surgery, there will be a bicycle traffic sign directly in front of a fenced in area with construction supplies. Touchdown will be under the bicycle sign just about the curb. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  We will be going straight the entire way.  No turning.
Go through the first intersection and you'll see a small vendor rack/stand on the right.  Keep going.
Eventually, you should see scaffolding ahead on the left.  Keep going.  Step into the next intersection (you'll see a pink truck to the right).

If you look right from here, you'll see three trash bins with different colored tops.  Next to them is a red newspaper box.  Touchdown is on the red box. Turn around until you're facing a schoolbus and going with traffic. Go forward until you reach the end of the block, then turn right. Go down the road, underneath the trees--it'll  look dark from the corner, but much brighter when you're there. Keep going until you reach the door of a brick building with a red sign above the door and two bushes in front of it. If you reach the roadwork you've gone too far, but not very. Touchdown is on top of the red sign. Orient yourself in the direction of traffic of the small road. Go straight and take a right at the first intersection. Take another right at the next intersection. Go straight past the scaffolding on the left. Touchdown is on the blue part of the flag after the scaffolding. You're basically standing in an intersection when you begin.  Move to the actual center of this intersection.  One corner has construction scaffolding.  Turn yourself so you'll be passing this scaffolding on your right as you move out of the intersection, and you'll be going with the flow of traffic on the narrower street here.  
Now you'll have the scaffolding on your right and a light-colored brick wall on your left as you start down this block.  Go to the next intersection and turn left.
You'll now have a modern white building with circle-shaped cutouts on the upper floors on your right.  Note that there are some potted bushes at the corner of the modern white building (near a sign for the building).  A little further along that building are some more potted bushes, that flank a break in the wall where there's a walkway.  Stop yourself when you're between the bushes on the corner and the bushes flanking the walkway.  The bear is in the center of the patch of bushes by the sign on the corner.
 Follow the flow of traffic to the next intersection.  Stay straight and go to the next intersection.  Turn left, then an immediate left again (U Turn).  Go through the next intersection and stop after.  There is a green sidewalk awning on the right.  stop before the awning and face the building.  The bear is at the bottom of the tree trunk.   Follow the traffic and go to the intersection. You will see some white tents to the left. Now turn left here at this intersection. Once you turned, you should see delivery truck with purple/orange letters to your left. Go straight to the intersection. You will see a store with yellow banner to your right and store with light green awning with white letters to your left. Turn left at this intersection.  Then go straight to the next intersection. once you reach the middle of the intersection make a one step to the left. Now the delivery truck should be gone and look around you should see a blue mailbox . The touchdown is on the top of the mailbox.  You will start very close to an intersection.  Move into that intersection and turn right.  You'll find you self on a one-way street.  The building on the left has arched windows at the street level, some of which are covered with large awnings.  Go forwards to the first intersection and turn right.  Go forwards to the third intersection; the sidewalk on the right just before the intersection is covered by scaffolding.  Move into the middle of the intersection.  On the far right corner of the intersection is a trash can, followed by two short metal posts and a green box.  Touchdown is at the base of the trash can. Go in the same direction as traffic.  Move forward to the first intersection.  Turn right.  There will be a row of blue bikes to your left.  Move forward to the next intersection.  Turn right again.  On your right will be lots of white tables and chairs.  Go all the way down this street until you reach the T-intersection.  Turn right.  The fence and the raised highway will be on your left at this point.  Move forward, looking out for a street to your right.  When you reach that street, turn right onto it.  There will be a brick building on your left.  Turn towards this brick building.  Notice the big windows of the store; just above the very right side of the right window is a black start.  Touchdown is on top of this star. Turn so the wrought iron fence is on your right and you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street.  Go forward until you reach an intersection, and turn right.  
On this block you'll have a gray apartment building with parking under the building on your left.  Go forward one short block to the intersection and turn right again. 
You'll now have a white building with white fire escapes on your left side.   Move down this block, and you'll eventually come to a white building on your right that appears to have a bunch of dead ivy or plants behind a pattered metal gate. Go forward until you've passed two patches of these dead plants behind gates.  You'll now be next to a chain link fence on the right, with some pipes and industrial looking stuff beyond the fence.  Just ahead of you on the right is a small orange light (construction type light) attached to the chain link fence.  The bear is on this light. With the park to your right,  go to the next intersection and take a left. You'll have traffic cones to your right. Go to the next intersection and take a left again. You'll have black awnings to your left.  Go to the next intersection and take a left. Go towards the next intersection, look at the orange barrier after the three orange port-a-potttys.  Touchdown will be on the orange reflector on the orange barrier. Turn so the bike lane is to your left. Go down the street straight. Go through the first small 3 way intersection you come to. At the next intersection take a right. On the left will be a store with white letters and a blue emblem. Go straight here. At the nearby intersection go straight. At the next light take a right. There will be a colorful mural on the right of you. Go straight up this street. Stop when you are almost at the next intersection. Just ahead on the left there is a yellow square painted in the median. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of this square.  Enter the intersection and turn right.  Go through one intersection, then turn right.  Stop at the end of the green wall on your left.  There is a square in the wall.  The bear is in the middle of the square.   Go down the street  in the direction that has the center island that has grey bells by the base of the traffic light and then planted bushes and trees.  As you go down the street, you should see a golden statue mounted partway up on the corner of a reddish building. Continue past the statue, and you will see a building with a lot of scaffolding on the left.  Turn left down that intersection.  The scaffolding should now be on your right continue down this street for one block then turn left at the red and grey building with dark grey wooden panels blocking off parts of the sidewalk.  you should see a sloped sidewalk on your right and a flat sidewalk on your left.  continue straight until you reach the fenced grassy ahead at the end of the road.  Touch down bear is on the top of the right most corner of the brick wall supporting the iron fence. Align yourself with the parked cars flow of traffic, with the bikes on your right. follow this road down and make a right, then make another right at the next intersection. Follow this road down until a couple steps before the next intersection, You should see some red graffiti above some metal crates on the sidewalk. Touchdown is sitting on the middle section of the metal boxes below the graffiti Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street.  Move forward to the intersection and turn right.  Go one short block to the next intersection, and turn right again.  This is a long block, and you're going most of the way down it - walk until you can see the next intersection coming into view.  As you near the end of the block, look on the right for a patch of plants near the sidewalk (it looks like a lot of plants in planters, and the plants go up higher than the cars).  Pass this green plant patch, and stop when you've just gone past it.  You'll see a strange-looking phone booth on the right sidwalk, and that is ahead of you (you're not even with that yet).  The bear is on top of the phone booth shelter, right in the middle. From your starting point, please turn around so that the intersection is behind you, and you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  There should be scaffolding with a green canopy on your left.  

Just walk forward until you come to an intersection that has three large white arrows painted on the road in front of it. 

Take a left at this intersection.  The narrow street that you enter heere should have a black storefront with an orange awning on the right, and a red stone storefront with a green sign and white lettering on the left.  Walk between these two shops, and then just keep going straight for a while.  When you pass some bright yellow cones on your right, you are about halfway there, so just keep going straight, past the empty playground.  

You will pass a long beige building on your right with a row of black square windows.  Just before you pass the last of these windows, look on the right-hand sidewalk for a small white sign with red lettering on a black pole.  Touchdown is sitting right on top of this sign.
 Turn so the construction scaffolding and the big arched window/doorway is on your right, and all the flags are behind you.  Go forward until you reach an intersection, and turn right.  
Now you'll have a couple of bright blue awnings on your left side, and a clock on your right.  Go forward one short block, and turn right at the intersection.
On this block you'll have a small empty lot to your right, and a hat vendor on the sidewalk on your left.  You'll also see flags on both sides up ahead. Go past all those flags.  Just past the last purple flags on your left is a parking garage.  There is one set of black doors with a black slanted wall above it, and just past that is the first entrance to the actual garage (you can see into the garage and see cars).  Stop when you're exactly even with this first garage entrance where you can see cars inside.  There is a construction barrel on the right side of this entrance, that is partially hidden behind the wall.  The bear is on the top of the barrel.
 Follow traffic to the light. Go left. Go to the next light. Go left. Verify green walls to the left, k-walls to the right.  Stop after passing the red overhead sign on the right, when you'll be about in the middle of the series of thin white bollards with double grey stripes on your right. 

Rotate right.  The little brown brick building to the left of the bus parking has a sign with a red circle, a slash through it, and a stick figure man. Touchdown sits centered on it. Put the black awnings with white symbols on your right side.  Walk to the end of the block and turn left.  Walk towards the trees at the end of the street.  When you run out of road, turn right, keeping the park on your left and a white building on your right.  Advance to the next intersection and turn left.  Travel up this road, keeping the park on your left and the brick buildings on your right.  Look at the light poles on your left.  On the third light pole, you'll see the backside of a diamond shaped sign, you can see the shape, but it's all metal.  The touchdown is in the middle of the diamond sign. Turn so you are facing the same direction  as traffic noting the intersection directly in front of you.
Pass through that intersection going straight.
At the next intersection you will notice a building with numerous US flags. Turn left here.
 You will travel all the way to the end of this block passing a bunch of generic nondescirpt stores on both sides.
When you arrive at the intersection turn left.
 Start moving slowly down this street paying attention to the left side of the street.
You will see a light colored building to the left with three red signs above the windows, on the center sign there are three white letters.
Touchdown is sitting in the bottom arc of the  middle letter. Turn so you are going with the traffic flow. There is a brick building with black fencing on your right. Go down the street and take a left at the light. Go straight. At the light go straight. Stop just past the cross walk. On the right crosswalk is an electronic parking meter. It is rectangular with a blue stripe around it. Touchdown is sitting on top of this.  You're in the middle of a four way intersection. One direction is a one-way that you couldn't turn down if you were driving. Keep that road to your right and go down the road. There will be a store with dark red awning and shopping carts out front to your right.

At the first 3 way intersection, turn right. Walk down about half way down the long block. First you'll pass scaffolding on your left. Then there will be a playground. 

On the fence for the playground, there will be three green signs, then a multicolored banner. After that, there will be two red signs. Touchdown is on the sign on the left.


 Go in the direction that places the temporary green construction awning to the left, against the flow of traffic. Make a right at the next intersection. Go straight through the next three way intersection, and make right at the next four way intersection. Pass through the crosswalk that has a traffic light at it. Stop just before the golden arches on the right. Turn to the left and you will see a store front with four square yellow signs that have black lettering on them. Touchdown will be in the center of the last square, the one with two lines of lettering. Follow traffic to the light and go left.  Stop at the second to last building on the right, where there are three windows on the second story that have white framing on top.  Touchdown is at the center of the last, leftmost window (the one without black fire escape in front of it). Hello there!

1. Make sure that you're going with the flow of traffic. Follow this road for a while, passing by a small basketball court with a graffiti mural on the left.

2. Pass through the first intersection, and take a right at the next one. You should now be on the right side of a divided street with a median on your left.

3. Take a left at the intersection in front of you. You'll now find yourself in another intersection on the opposite side of the divided street.

4. Orient yourself so that the intersection that you just came from is behind you. On your left, there should be a park area with orange umbrellas and small black roofs. Take a left so that you're on the opposite side of the divided street now.

5. You should now have another choice. Turn around completely so that you're facing the intersection that you just came from. Now take a right.

6. If you look to the street that you're now headed towards, you should see two graffiti-covered yellow barrels with black lids. Touchdown is sitting on top of the left one.

Good luck! :) Turn yourself so that you are going in the direction of traffic and there is a red wall on your right with an animal painted on it. Go forward and at the traffic light, make a right. At the next traffic light, make another right. Go all the way down this road until you see the traffic light. Before the intersection, look to the right and you will see some blue chairs outside of a store. Look at the chairs on the corner and Touchdown is sitting in the chair closest to the fire hydrant.  Face the building with the red lines.  take 1 step forward.  Now turn right (Red stripes on your left).  Continue forward.  Take the 3rd right. Pass the rental bikes on your left.  Once you pass them, turn and look left.  Stop when you see a parking meter/post.  Bear sitting on top.   Stand so that you are walking with the flow of traffic. Move slightly forward (facing blue signs/awnings ahead on your right), and turn left. Follow the road as it curves left. Continue on this road for awhile. You will first pass a 3-way intersection where the street to the right is blocked off. Then you will reach an intersection with stoplight: turn left. Move forward slightly. On your right is a green cover above the sidewalk, with a red light. Touchdown is on the red light. From your starting point, please turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the parked cars on your street.  There should be a closed metal gate on your left, and an open gate with some parked SUVs on your right.

Walk up this brick-lined road toward the intersection.    Walk into the four-way intersection and pass straight through onto the brick-lined street on the other side.  When you are standing just on the edge of this road's brick surface, stop and look around.  There should be a black fire hydrant with a silver cap on the sidewalk to your right.  Touchdown is sitting right on top of this hydrant. Follow traffic to the end of the block and go right. Go right again at the light, and once more at the next one.

At the next intersection, go straight into it, but don't pass the crosswalk on the other side.  Ahead and on your right is a traffic pole with a large orange sign.  

Touchdown is sitting in the center and on top of the top yellow arm holding the yellow traffic box. Go in the same direction as traffic, and turn right at the first intersection. Go right again at the next one. There is a red awning all along the right side of this street. Just past it, you will enter a 3 way intersection.  Stop and look behind you at the red awning. Touchdown is sitting on top of it, just above the big red number in the white oval at the corner. Orient yourself so that you are facing the close intersection and move towards it.At the intersection, pass through it to continue straight. You need to pass through 2 more intersections (a 3-way and a 4-way). When you reach the next intersection, turn left. Now on your right is a building with a red and white flag, and on your left is striped white and black awnings. Continue to the next intersection; turn left there and stop. Then on your right is a blue mailbox. Touchdown is on top of the mailbox. Turn with the flow of traffic and head to the nearest intersection.  Then turn right.  Follow this road and take the next right.    There are nice planters with trees on the left.  Follow this road and turn right.  Take a couple steps forward and look right.  You should be looking at 2 paintings of people.  There is a blue building to the left.  The bear is on the door lock of the door. Follow traffic to the light and go right, and go right again at the next light.  Watch to your right, and stop when you're just before the blue porta-potty behind the fencing and scaffolding.  Rotate right.  

To the left of the big white sign is a red light in a metal casing. Touchdown is impaled upon it. Orient yourself with traffic and go through the next two lights. Stop when you are in the intersection of the third light. Touchdown is on top of a blue and yellow food cart umbrella to your right. Turn so that the trees are to your left.  At the first intersection, turn left and stop.  Touchdown is on top of the blue mailbox on the right hand corner. Move in the direction of traffic. When you reach the intersection, turn left. AT the next intersection, turn left at the big red building in front of you. Go straight down this street and stop when you reach the crosswalk. To your left there is a fire hydrant between two poles. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant. Orient yourself so you're going the same direction as the traffic and there's a park on your right and a shrubbery median on your left.  Go forward to the intersection up ahead and turn left-ish.  It's a left turn but it also is angled back almost the way you came.  You're actually going to go back down the same road you were just on, but on the other side of the median.  So take that left-ish turn, go forward until you can turn left again and do so.  you'll now be headed back down the road you were just on.  At the next intersection, turn left.  Go forward and go straight through the intersection, then stop.  Look to your right, you're at the corner of a dark building that has dark red awnings with white markings on them.  On the corner of the building, there are two security cameras.  Touchdown is sitting on the left security camera. Hello. Please orient yourself with the direction of the parked vehicles. There will be scaffolding with green awning to your left side. There will be a median with lots of trees and tall grass to your right side.

Walk forward towards the next intersection. When you reach the crosswalk, it will open up a three-way option. Turn left here before the intersection. 

Once you turn, please orient yourself with the orange gates to your left side. There will be a large white truck and a single orange gate with a trashcan to your right side. This will be tricky but you want to move straight across the intersection. 

When you try to proceed, you may find you are back at the three-way intersection option. If so, please move backwards and try again. If you successfully make it across the intersection, you will see a green newspaper stand on the right side next to a brown stone building with arched windows. There will be a fire hydrant as well. 

Walk forward towards the crosswalk of the next intersection. Another three-way option will open up before you reach the crosswalk. Ignore it this time. Walk straight into the middle of the intersection. Turn right.

There will be a brown stone building with arched windows to your right side. There will be a cement median to your left side as well as yellow painting lines on the road. 

Walk straight through the next three-way intersection. You will pass a bright yellow dumpster on your right side. Slow down now as you approach the crosswalk for the next intersection. Please stop before you are standing on the crosswalk. To your right side, you will see a black trashcan with a rounded opening next to a pole. Touchdown will be on top of the trashcan. Good luck! Walk with traffic to the four way intersection. Take a left here. Take a long walk down this street until you come to another four way intersection. Take another left here. Walk forward until you see a storefront with a red awning. Touchdown is in the middle of the symbol at the top of the awning.  Turn and move down the street with traffic flow. At the first intersection, turn right, continue to the next intersection, and turn right again. Continue past the pile of garbage bags on the sidewalk on the left. Continue further until you see Touchdown on top of a bike rack on the right. Follow traffic to the light and go right.  Go right again at the next light. You'll be on a street with scaffolding to the right and blue rental bikes down your left.  Go past the red and yellow awnings on your left, and just after the white sign band with red glyphs, stop and rotate left.

Touchdown is adhered to the grill of the air conditioner above the white sign band with red glyphs. Face the flow of traffic with the scaffolding on your right and flag on your left. Go straight and make a left at the first traffic light. There will be a glass building on your right. Keep going and make a left at the traffic light. You will now see a red awning that goes from the building to the edge of the sidewalk. Keep going and pass the traffic light until you reach the other side of the street. There will be a brown storefront with red and yellow letters on your right. Touchdown is on the first red letter.  Face the big intersection you are almost in. Enter it and go left with traffic. Go straight through the next intersection, and turn left at the one after that. There are bike racks along your right. After passing a few of the bikes, watch for a blue sign with white numbers on a pole to your right. Touchdown is sitting on top of it toward the pole side, covering part of the white and red sign above it.  Go down the street with the park behind a short chain-link fence on the corner. You'll see a hydrant and yellow kiosk on your right, letting you know you're on the right path. Go almost all the way down this long block, passing a very bright red door in a building to your left, under windows with blue panels.  Stop before the building on the left corner that has white wood siding, so you can rotate left and be staring at a small building with blue bricks on the second story and a black door.

Find touchdown atop the vertical white rectangle light above and to the right of the black door on that building. Turn away from the intersection you are near.

Proceed forward to the next intersection.
Turn right at the intersection.

Proceed forward to the next intersection
Turn right at the intersection.

Proceed forward roughly half a block.
On your right you will see a tree in front of an orange awning.

The bear is sitting in the Y shape crotch of the tree branches in front of the orange awning. Turn to move with traffic, there is an inflatable large rat ahead on your left, at the intersection turn left, you will see two large glass buildings ahead that appear blue.  Go to the next intersection and take a left. .There will be garage doors on your right , you will pass a chain link fenced in parking lot on the right. You will pass purple awnings on the left, you will then see two bright red doors. The bear is on the door handle of the right door Turn to go with traffic flow and turn left at the corner. Going against traffic, keep going through the first intersection but make a right at the next one, then make a quick left. Touchdown is at the base of the first tree in that medium to the left. Face the intersection you are closest to. Use the left arrow to see a set of four arrows, then continue straight so you are moving against traffic on the street you started on. There will be a kids clothing store on your left. Turn left at the first intersection you come to, with jewelers on either side of the corner. Continue down the one way street, against traffic, until you're almost at the end of the block. You'll pass a parked mail truck on your right and then behind the truck there will be two gray/green mailboxes next to each other and a series of four blue magazine holders on your right. Touchdown is on top of the first blue magazine holder.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  You should see scaffolding on your right and scaffolding ahead on the left.  Further down, you should see more scaffolding ahead on the right and some orange and white barriers on the left.
Turn right at the intersection up ahead, passing the clock with a gold frame on the right.
Just past the clock, you will find Touchdown on the white and red umbrella on the food cart. Turn and move the same direction as traffic. When you get to an intersection, turn left. After you turn the corner building on the right has a green awning. Go straight one block. Turn left again then immediately stop. The road ahead of you should curve. Look to the left corner and you will see a trashcan between a stop light post and a tree. Touchdown is on top of the trashcan. Turn so the brick sidewalk and iron fencing is on your right, and you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street.  Move forward, and near the end of this short block you'll see rainbow flags on the construction scaffolding on your left.  After the rainbow flags, there is an intersection - go straight through it.  Immediately after that you'll come to another intersection, where you should turn left.  You'll now have a restaurant with bright pink planter boxes along the sidewalk on your left, and a store with paper taped over the windows on your right.  
You'll come to another intersection pretty quickly, and this one is a 5-6 point intersection.  Ignore the first opportunity to turn, and just past that you'll have another chance to turn.  When you get to that second chance to turn, make a left.  You'll be turning so the large planters and restaurant with the striped awning and yellow walls around the seating area will all be on your right as you leave the intersection.  
Now you're on a block with a green bike lane on the left side.  You'll pass by one chance to turn left, and then a chance to turn right.  After that, the third chance to turn will be a chance to turn left.  Take this left turn, and you'll have the brick building with a wavy purple awning to your left now.  After the building with the wavy purple awning there is a red door to a home.  Stop when you've just passed the red door.  The bear is in the center of the mail slot on the red door.   Orient yourself facing the same way as traffic, there is a traffic light just ahead, at that traffic light Turn Right. There is now a brick building to your left and orange and white street barriers ahead and to the left.

Travel ahead to  the traffic light and Turn Right. Now you have a red awning to your right side, Go ahead down this street to the next traffic light and  Turn Right. 

Directly in front of you is another Intersection, go straight through that intersection and at the next one Stop in the crosswalk.

To your right is an Orange barrel , Touchdown is on top of it> Turn yourself until you see a green awning on the right corner of the intersection you are facing.  Go straight through the intersection passing the awning.  Turn left at intersection.  You will see a yellow newspaper box and trash basket on your right as you start down the street.  You will see a brown building on your right with the lower part of it painted gray as you move along.  You will also pass a fenced offed area with many blue trash bins on your right.  As you enter the intersection you will see a blue mailbox and a gray trash basket on the right corner of the end of the intersection.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the mailbox. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, and make a right at the intersection. You'll make a right at the next intersection.

Stop at the next intersection, and you should see an orange port-a-potty on your left across the street. Touchdown is on top of the white roof. Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. There should be a white barrier to your left and a dark gray fence to your right.

2. Follow this road as it curves to the right. It will curve to the right again and merge into another lane. There should be an overpass ahead of you, and the road will begin to slope downward.

3. Pass beneath two overpasses. After the second one, keep an eye on the right for four traffic cones. Make sure that you're headed toward the tunnel on the right, but don't go in it.

4. When you're even with the traffic cones, stop. Touchdown is sitting on top of the leftmost one.

Good luck! :) Go in the same direction as traffic, going left at the nearby intersection. Go left again at the next one. The stores on the left side of the road are mainly red looking ahead. Go left at the first left side street.  Bike parking lines the left lane of it. Go straight through the next intersection, stopping just before the lit up black overhang on the building on the left. Turn to face it and find Touchdown sitting right on the very top of the potted tree on the left side of the entrance door.  Go with the flow of traffic, at this stoplight make a left turn (you'll be going against the flow of traffic).  When you get the possibility to veer right - do so.  Look at the signs in the median, looking back at the way you just came from.  There will be a no u-turn sign.  Touchdown is on this sign. Turn so the white stone building is on your left. Go to the intersection and make a right turn. Go through the first stoplight that is for pedestrian crosswalk crossing. Go straight at the 4 way intersection. At the next intersection make a right turn. On your left there is a green awning at the corner. You will pass a parking area with yellow gates on the right side. You are coming up on the green awnings that cover sidewalks on the right. Pass the first one then stop. Look to your right and you'll see a blue piece of equipment on the other side of the fence. There is a fire hydrant closer to you on the sidewalk. Touchdown is on top of that fire hydrant.  You're at the intersection of two one-way roads. When you orient yourself properly, you'll be facing in the direction of traffic with construction scaffolding ahead and on your right. Walk two blocks down this road.

The first intersection will have tall orange and white columns with steam coming out of them in the middle of the intersection. Keep going straight through.

At the second intersection, turn left. There will be a store with black letters and a red checkmark on your right. 

Go down this block, but keep an eye on your right. You'll pass three large blue awnings with white letters. Right after this is a black door set in the same building. Touchdown is on the middle of the ornate cement decoration above this door. Go down the street with the building on your right and fenced parking lot on your left.
Go all the way down to the intersection and turn right.
Go to the next intersection and turn right again. When you turn there will be a building with painted fruit on the left and a black building with torn red awning on your right. It's kind of tricky to get here but you can.
Move forward a bit until you see a green awning on your left. 
In front of that building with the green awning is a road sign that is mostly white with red lettering and a red upper left corner. Touchdown is on top of that sign.
 Turn and go in the direction with the traffic. Go straight at this intersection. Turn right at the next intersection. On the left  is a building with 6 big yellow lights over sidewalk.On the left some scaffolding  and green boards. Go straight at intersection. Look to the left and touchdown is on top of the first little tree.  Moving in the direction of traffic, go straight through the first intersection. When you reach the next intersection where there is a big building with a ton of American flags on your left, turn left. Pass under the skyway. Stop before you reach the two orange cones on your right. Look all the way to the left and you will see a black pole with a blue stripe on it. Touchdown is on top of the pole. Follow traffic to the end of the block and go left.  And again. And once more.

You should find yourself walking against traffic, and see in front of you a very stylized banner with dragons! (Beware, here there be...)

Walk under that banner to the end of the block.  Just before the intersection, to your left, you will see a black fire hydrant with a white painted cap, between two grey metal poles.

Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant's white cap. Turn yourself so you'll be walking in the same direction the cars are going, and walk to the intersection.  Turn right at the intersection.  Walk to the next intersection (it's a pretty long block). Turn right, and just go a step or two to start moving out of the intersection.  When you're at the right step, you'll see a NY Firefighter van parked on your right with some large orange traffic/construction barrels around it.  The bear is right on the word "BURN" on the window of the fire van. Orient yourself so that the red brick building with a tan archway is on your left. Go straight down this street. When you come to the first traffic light, you will make a hard right turn. After you turn you should see a tall black iron fence on your left. Continue down this road. You will come up to a traffic light. AS you begin to go through the light, look to your left and you will see two black pipes with silver tops sticking out of the ground. In the middle of the pipes is a fire hydrant. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant.  Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street.  Go forward to the first intersection you come to, and go straight through it.  At the next intersection, turn right.  Go one very short block to the next intersection and turn right.  Move down this block until you've just barely passed the little gray fire hydrant on the right side (on the sidewalk).  Turn back to the fire hydrant - the bear is on top of it. Go with traffic, with the fenced in playground to your right, and take a left at the light. Take another left at the next light, passing blue rental bikes on your left as you go to the end of the street, where at the next light, you'll make a final left.

Stop as soon as you clear the crosswalk. There's a green stripe to your right on the road, and ahead to your left, a brown awning with stripes, and opposite, to the right, a red and then a black flag on the very red building.  

Touchdown is in the center of the black flag. Turn so the business with the blue awning with white lettering is on your right. Go straight down the street. When you come to the first intersection take a left. Once you turn you will have a median with a tree and some small green plants on your right. There is delivery truck parked on the left side of the street. Head down this street. Go straight through the next intersection you come to. When you come to the next intersection go straight here as well. Go down the street and stop at the next intersection. You will see a red building with a black sign on the right. Touchdown is sitting on top of the first blue umbrella on the left side of the road.  Orient yourself so that the building with red awning is on your right. Go straight down this street. When you come to the first traffic light, go straight through it. When you come to the second traffic light, begin going straight through it. On the right corner there is a building with a red awning. Immediately after you cross the intersection there will be a green pole on the sidewalk to the right with a small blue, and a larger red and white sign. Touchdown is sitting at the bottom of the green pole.  Face the intersection and go into it and take a right. The business on your left will have a blue and white logo.  You'll go straight through the next two lights. At the third light, you'll turn right.  There's an orange and purple striped awning to your right.  Halfway down this street there will be two red tents on your right.  The door after it has a golden angel on top of it.  Touchdown is on the angel's stomach. Trun and face the direction where the building on the left corner has a bright red door and red trim along the top of the first floor. Proceed to the intersection in front of you.Take a left. There will be a park on the right side and the bright red door on the left side.  Move down this street. You will come to red awnings that extend to the edge of the sidewalk. You iill pass by two of them, before you get to the third one stop. There are a couple bikes and scooters that situated on a green post before reaching the last red awning. The Touchdown is on the seat of the blue bike.  Follow the flow of traffic and go straight. After a while you will reach an intersection. Stop at the intersection and look to your right. There is a yellow/green traffic cone on the left side of the road after the crosswalk. The cone is the touchdown.  Face the same direction as the traffic, with the plants on your right, and make a left at that intersection. Pass the green awning, continue to the intersection and make a left when you see the blue and yellow awnings on your right. There should be a bus stop on your right, continue forward and stop when you reach the blue and white sign hanging above the traffic on the pole to your right. Touchdown is on the black arrow on that sign. You are on a one way road, go with the flow of traffic. Go to the next intersection and make a left, you will now see the other side of the intersection in front of you. Make another left at the other side, so you are now heading back in the direction you came from but on the opposite side of the road. You will have a the fenced in median to your left. Go straight through the next intersection, You will now have a store front on your right with a green awning. Go to the next intersection, stop in the middle, turn around and go back exactly the way you came from. You will have a red awning to your right and a green building with a red brick top to your left. At the next intersection you will make a right and stop in the middle of the intersection on the other side of the road. If your still with me you will have a crosswalk directly in front of you, a building to your right with a black bottom and brick building to your left. Turn to corner on your right with the building that has a black bottom and you will see a blue newspaper dispenser. Touchdown is in the center of the display glass of this blue newspaper dispenser.  Position yourself where you should notice a stop sign ahead of you. Head toward the stop sign and make a right turn. Head straight passing all the yellows signs with people until you arrive at a T section with two stops sign. One on your left and the other on your right. On your right you should notice a yellow box near the stop sign. The teddy is sitting on top of it in the center. Orient yourself so that there is a large white truck in front of you and a right turn light to your right. Continue forward until you get to an intersection that has construction forward and to the left of you. Turn right and then go forward go through two intersections and stop before the third. There should be a police car parked to your left. The touchdown is in the middle of its front wheel. Turn so you're facing the intersection that's extremely close to you.  Move into the intersection and turn left.  This is a short block - go to the other end of it and turn left at the intersection.  
Now you're on a divided street with lots of plants in the median strip.  Go straight, and move straight past the chance to turn left on to a very narrow street/driveway.  Go straight through the three-way intersection at the traffic light.  You'll see a purple bridge ahead.  Go forward a short distance to the next intersection, and turn left.  There will be blue benches on your right on this block.  Stop when you're almost even with the door to the building with the blue benches.  The bear is in the center of the door.  Orient yourself so you are facing the flow of traffic with the red and black truck in front of you, Go forward until you reach the intersection and take a right , You should see a green awning on the left and a bus lane on the right side of the road,Go forward until you pass the two flags hanging on the right, Turn to your left and you will see a planter with a man standing next to it, click the middle of the white planter to find touchdown. Turn and go in same direction as traffic. Scaffolding to the left. Blue awning to the right. Blue and white awning to the left. Turn left at intersection. Green awning to the left. Turn left at intersection. Green awning to the left. Before you get to the intersection there is a green awning to the left. Stop right before you get to it. Even with the tree before it. Touchdown is sitting on top of the light on the left side of the awning.   Turn so that the blue railing is to your left, and the river ahead and to the right.

There are no turns so go straight and drive over the bridge ahead.

Keep going ahead until you encounter the suspension cables on either side( thick corrugated tan pipe".

You will continue ahead but slow it down and start paying attention to your left side, and notice a white crane just before tow clocks of orange safety netting , to the left.

Stop when parallel to that white crane and look down at the ground before you and see that metal grate.

Touchdown is on the  right most slot on the edge closest to you.




 Turn so that you're walking with the flow of traffic. Go until the next intersection, then turn left. Continue straight until the next intersection and turn left again. Continue until you see a little green parking shack on the left. Touchdown is sitting at the bottom corner of that shack where the asphalt, sidewalk and green edge meet. Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Move ahead to the intersection, and turn right. Continue for awhile; you'll pass through one 4-way intersection. When you are nearing the next, on the right above you is a dark brown flag with a white circular logo. Touchdown is on the flag. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, the green scaffolding should be on your right. Head up to the intersection, and make a left. there should be blue scaffolding on your right as you head down the beginning.

Head to the end of this intersection, and make another left. One step in, look to your left and you should see a green trash bin next to the red newspaper stand on the corner. Touchdown is on top of the green bin. Orient yourself so you are facing the delivery truck and are going with the flow of traffic. Move ahead to the first intersection. Take a right and go to the next intersection. Take a right and move ahead until the construction site is on your left. On your left should be a roped off area with two large holes and a pile of bricks. Next to the pile of bricks is a red crate. Touchdown is in front of the crate. From your starting point, please turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  You should see an intersection right in front of you.  Walk forward into the intersection, stop and turn left.  You should now be looking down a wide, one-way street, in the same direction as traffic.  On your right should be some yellow and blue umbrellas behind a small fence.

Walk up this road until you come to another intersection.  Stop, and turn left in this intersection.  You should be walking down a narrow lane, in the same direction as the cars, between scaffolding on your left and a shop with a blue border and white letters on your right.  

When you see purple letters on a shop on your right, and an orange ladder leaning against scaffolding, just walk straight through the intersection in front of you.  

Pass, on your left, a small white sign with red lettering and a blue section at the bottom.  Just after this sign, will be three sets of wooden doors on the left, each at the top of a small concrete staircase.  Stop when you are standing next to the middle of these doors.  

Look to the sidewalk on your right.  There should be large glass windows with square-shaped green logos with white letters.  On the left side of these windows (farthest from the intersection) is a vertical green column.  Touchdown is sitting right on top of this green section. With the bright red building to your right, go to the corner you see ahead and turn right. When you turn the building on the right has boarded up windows.

Go down this long block to the next corner and turn right at the 3-way intersection. You are going down an exit of sorts with an overpass up ahead that's brown. Go under that and keep going until you have 2 options to backup, but don't go anywhere! Look up and the overpass ahead of you and there is a white sign with a big red circle on it. Touchdown is in the center of this sign. Turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  You should see some yellow plastic steps on the road to your left and a shop with a red/maroon awning to your right.  Walk straight down this road, and keep going until you reach an intersection.  

Stop in the middle of the intersection and turn to your right.  You should be facing down a road that has a shop on the left, with multiple green square-shaped signs with white letters.  Walk down this road, and be careful to keep the green signs on your left, so that you know you are on the right path.  

Keep moving down this road, and stop just before you come to a crosswalk.  Look to your right.  There is a small shop on the corner with dark green letters.  Above its door is a circular, green and white logo.  Touchdown the Bear should be blocking this logo with his body. From the starting position, turn so that you are facing the same direction that traffic is moving in. Move straight through 2 intersections, each with a traffic light. Continue moving straight until you reach a 3rd intersection. At the corner of your intersection to your right, there is a black and white sign with a large orange arrow if you look up. Touchdown is on the tip of that arrow. Turn and follow traffic down the street. There will be a tan building with red doors on the right. Turn right at the intersection. There will be a green store on the right. Turn right again at the next intersection. You will see a big yellow building up ahead of you. When you get to the yellow building Touchdown is sitting on the right top roof. Turn so that the construction dividers and boxes are on your right. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. The rust colored building should be on your right and there should be orange and white dividers on your left. Walk forward passing the park on your left. You should see purple awnings on your left. Walk past them to the next intersection. Walk through the intersection and stop right before the four construction cylinders on the other side of the intersection. Touchdown is on top of the right most cylinder. orient yourself so that the gas station is on your left, and the chain link fence is on your right. you should be facing in the same direction as the flow of traffic. head straight until you reach an intersection. Take a sharp angle right towards the building with the blue covering. go straight under the bridge. keep going straight and go under the second bridge. keep going straight towards the tunnel. stop before you reach the first tunnel before the yellow traffic sign on your left. touchdown is at the base of the yellow traffic sign on your left. Turn and go in the same direction as the traffic. A store to the left will have 4 flags on it.  Continue straight down this long street.Turn left at the next intersection. A store sign to the left will be red and yellow. Turn left at next intersection. Red building on the left with black. Short distance past this is a blue awning past 2 red and white windows on the left. Touchdown is sitting on top of the left side of the awning. Turn until the metal doors are to your left and the large red awning is to your right. Walk forward into the intersection and turn left. You should see a tall white building in the distance. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left. There should be green scaffolding to your right. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left. A store with a black and red sign should be to your right. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left. There should be a blue store on the corner to your left. Walk down the street until you reach the first set of red doors on your left. Face right. Touchdown is on top of the triangle bush to the right of the open doorway. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and turn left at the coming intersection.
You should be on a windy road.  Follow it past some landscaping work on the left and then past the green grass area on the right.  You should be approaching an intersection.  Stop in the middle of it.
Ahead on the right you should see a small blue rectangular box on the side of the building with metal tubes coming out of it.  Touchdown is hiding on the blue box. From your starting point, please turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  There should be a black fire hydrant on the sidewalk to your right, and an orange cone on the sidewalk to your left.  Walk up this street and stop when you come to an intersection.  

Turn to your right at this T-intersection.  You should see a dark red/maroon awning with white letters up ahead on your right.  Walk down this road, with the park on your left, and stop when you come to an intersection.  

Turn to your right at this intersection and walk down a narrow land that has scaffolding (over a pink and blue storefront) on the left and a yellow/orange wall on the right.  

Walk straight down this road for a while.  Pass some orange plastic barriers on your left, and then a silver ladder on your right.  Walk a bit further, and pass a turquoise awning with black lettering on the right.  Go just a bit further and stop when you are standing next to a dark red/maroon storefront on the right.  It will have a large white poster with black letters and numbers in its window.  

Look to your left for a green section of brick wall.  At the edge of this green section is a door way with two black hand rails.  Above this door is a small light.  

Touchdown is sitting on the top edge of the green section, directly above that light. Turn and follow traffic to the end of the block, and go right.   Go to the end of the block and right again.  You will pass a cream colored building with a green awning and a green stripe at the base on your left, and a sidewalk wheelchair ramp with black railing on your right.

Proceed to the concrete building with rusted brown fire escapes just past the building with the long green entrance canopy, itself after a set of three steep stoops, to your right,   Facing the building, you should see grey square box at chest level to the left of the second door with 9 panes of glass.

Touchdown is dead center of that silver metal box.
 Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and the construction on your left.  Move forward and turn left at the first intersection.  The large white building with a lot of windows will be on your right after you turn.  
Turn left at the next intersection and you should see a dirty brick building over a white storefront with red text ahead on the right.  Go forward until you're a bit shy of the orange barrier and the large metal circular shape on the gate is still ahead of you.
You will find Touchdown hiding on the white sign with red writing and a red arrow on the green retaining wall. Follow the flow of traffic, with the all black storefront to your right and make a right at the intersection with the brown framed store front on your right. Continue down the street, where you see construction in front of you and make a right. The construction will now be on your left. Move forward and make your last right at the intersection, with the green awning now on your right. Move forward and stop when you reach the scaffolding that is on your left. Touchdown is at the base of the only tree on your right Orient yourself with traffic and walk forward to the intersection. Take a left at the intersection and move forward to the next one. Again take a left here moving on to the next intersection. Take one final left and move forward. There will be scaffolding to your left. On the side walk near the scaffolding is a black post. Touchdown is on top of the post.  Turn so you are facing the same direction as traffic, and there are a row of trees in large stone planters (possibly with lights on them) on your left.  Walk forward to the intersection.  At the intersection, turn right.  Move forward with the traffic, keeping the green painted road on your left.  At the next intersection, turn right again.  Walk down this one way street with the traffic until you reach the next intersection.  Turn right and immediately look for a small island divider on your left.  It is made of concrete but has a planter bed with some plants and a small tree growing in it.  It separates the green painted road from the normal colored road.  Touchdown will be at the bast of the tree. Turn to go with traffic, and take a left at the intersection you're immediately at, going down a street with scaffolding on your right. Blaze through the first light you encounter and take a left at the next.  You should be on a road with a lot of metal fencing to your right to barricade off the foot traffic area before the stone wall further back. 

Go forward until you just come to the stairs on your right, where you can see a large white light globe on a stone pedestal.  Touchdown is impaled upon it.
 Turn and go in the direction with the traffic. Go straight thru intersection. Scaffolding with red overhang to the right. Turn right at the traffic light. Scaffolding with green on the left and scaffolding with red on the right. Turn right at intersection. Construction on the left. Turn right at intersection. YOu will see scaffolding to the left. There is a orange and yellow cone before the scaffolding. Touchdown is on the yellow cone.  Turn so the tan brick building with a green canopy awning further down on the left is to your left. There is a red brick building on the right with a tan bottom half and black fire escapes. 

Go down this road, passing any turns to the right until you come to the first full cross road. Turn left here. Before you turn there will be three yellow poles directly in front of you since you cannot go straight anymore. When you turn, buildings will be on your left and trees on your right with a cobblestone sidewalk to your right as well.


Go through the first intersection and turn left at the next. Before you turn, you will see a white building to the right with red/white striped awnings, red doors and red windows. Go left, do not go past that store.

When you turn you will see some blue awnings down on the right, orange umbrellas on the left. Go past the orange umbrellas until you are almost at the next corner. On the left of that corner is a blue mailbox that Touchdown is sitting on top of. Go with the flow of traffic.  Ignore the first street to the right and turn right at the second street. The business to your left has a yellow logo. Turn right at the next intersection.  There will be potted plants in the median to your left.  Go straight through the first stop sign. When you get closer to the next stoplight, there will be a large square grate in the road after the blue windows on your right.. Touchdown is in the center of the grate. Follow the flow of traffic to the next intersection.  Turn left.  Follow the flow of traffic to the next intersection.  While in the center of the intersection look straight up, there is one building with a blue circle (Near the sky).  Bear in the middle of the circle.   Face in the direction of the traffic and the purple rectangular sign. Go straight to the first street light and make a left. Go in the direction of the traffic and make a left at the first street light. Go straight and stop when you see the first yellow/orange diamond sign on your right. Touchdown is to the right of that, on the first green lamp above the brown framed door. From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  You should see some kind of plywood box standing on the left side of the street.  Walk forward, past that box.  It's a long straight walk, so if you see a red van parked on the right up ahead, you are on the right track, and can just keep going.  Stop when you come to the middle of an intersection. 

Turn to your left, so that you are looking down a wide road with scaffolding and green canopies on the sidewalks on both sides.  Walk down this road, between the two sets of scaffolds.  

Stop before you come to the crosswalk, and take a look around.  On your left, you should see a white sign with a black truck logo, and a red circle and slash over the truck.  Touchdown the Bear is sitting on top of this sign.  Orient yourself so that you are moving with traffic and have the striped yellow and white awning on your right. Move ahead down this street, passing straight through the first 2 intersections and turn left at the third. After turning you should have green scaffolding on your right.

Now move partway down this block until you reach the start of green scaffolding on your left. Face right and there is a short gray post with a blue stripe. Touchdown is on the blue stripe. Orient yourself with traffic and make an immediate right turn. Make a right at the next intersection. Stop after passing through the next intersection. In the median to your left there should be a planter with a sign. Touchdown is on the sign. Follow the flow of traffic to the next intersection.  Turn right.  Then a right at the next intersection.  (There is a subway entrance on the right).  Pass the blue dumpster on the left.  There is a red bike chained to the pole.  The bear is on the seat. turn so you are moving with the flow of traffic and take a right at the first intersection on your right there is some road works with orange pylons move forward so you are standing right by these orange and white pylons touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant next to the pylons Align yourself against traffic and walk forward. At the intersection take a left and continue to the next intersection. Take a left again here. On your left will be a large purple flag with an orange circle. Touchdown is in the center of the circle. Go with the flow of traffic.  Head straight with traffic through the tunnel and out the other side.  After you exit the tunnel, there will be some short, yellow and black lane-divided signs on your left.  Continue past all of these.  You will then see a series of orange and black arrows that direct traffic around the curve.  These are mounted on the concrete wall to your right.  As you approach the first of these, you will be forced to step to your left (there is no straight option).  After you step to the left, the first of the yellow signs with black arrows will be to your right.  Pass this first arrow and then stop.  Turn 90 degrees to the right.  There is a red hydrant with a sliver top tucked in a little alcove in the concrete wall.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this hydrant.   Position yourself so the large sign that has a bright pink banner in front of woman is on you right. Move with the flow of traffic to the first intersection just ahead and turn left. After you turn, a black building with a lot of windows and white lettering as a sign will be on your right. 

Go straight through the first intersection on this street, and turn left at the second one. There will be orange and white construction barriers in front of black fencing on your right. When you get to the next intersection, proceed straight, stopping before you're all the way through.

Look at the corner on your right, and you'll see several potted plants there. There is only one planter with two pink flowers in it. Touchdown is sitting on the ground in front of that planter.  Stand so you are moving with traffic. Move straight to the first intersection and turn left. Go to the next intersection and turn left again. Move forward, past the first set of orange and white barriers in the road. There is an orange barrel with two white stripes on your right. Touchdown is on the barrel. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and the scaffolding is on your right.  Exit this intersection and go forward, turning left at the next one.  Once you do you will see a tall building on the right corner with a completely glass corner and a blue with bronze trim business on the left.  Go down this road, passing a bright yellow blue business on the left.  When you get to the end of the row of bikes, turn left.
Head down this row and straight through the first intersection, you'll find yourself passing a brick building with blue trim around the windows on the first floor.  Head to the next intersection and turn right.  Step just out of the intersection and you should see fire escapes painted green.  Directly to the right of the first fire escape on the lowest floor, there is an air conditioner that Touchdown is hiding on.
 Follow the flow of traffic, with the pink store sign/banner to your right and make a right at the second intersection.Continue past the black storefront with green framed windows on your left and make your last right at the upcoming intersection. The grassy median will be on your left and statues on your right. Stop in front of the first set of white statues. On your right, at the edge of the sidewalk, there will be a pole with a blue circular sign. Touchdown is on the bus symbol in the center of the blue circle. Position yourself so you're moving with the flow of traffic, so a motorcycle will be parked in the road to your left and the entrance to a parking garage is up ahead on your right. When you get to the first intersection (there are no traffic lights), continue going straight. At the second intersection, turn right.

After you turn, a business with yellow awnings and outdoor seating will be on your right. Go straight through the first intersection you get to on this street. A brick building with purple awnings will be on your right after you clear it. When you get to the traffic light at the next intersection, walk straight into the middle of it and stop. Look to your right, and you'll see a wooden bench near the beginning of the median. Touchdown is sitting right in the center of the bench.  Face the same direction that traffic is going. The trees and park will be on your left. At the first intersection that is a 3 way, keep going straight. When you reach the next intersection, make a right. After you are turned the building with arched windows will be on your left side. Go straight one kind of long block. Make another right at the intersection. The red awnings should be on your right side and trees and bushes are in the median on your left side. Go straight one block. Make another right turn. There will be lighter color stone buildings on both sides of you. Some green covered scaffolding is ahead on the right. You will be going about halfway down this street. If you look to the right under the awning there are some horizontal stripes in the brick work on the building. Go past that until you are next to the last corner of the scaffolding. There is a fire hydrant on the right side just ahead of you just past the scaffolding. Touchdown is on top of that hydrant. Align yourself with the flow of traffic. At the first intersection, take a left, then take another left at the next short intersection. Follow this road down until you're in front of the first of three brown staircases leading up, with one in the middle leading down. Touchdown is sitting on the middle of the first stairway. Align yourself so the scaffolding is on your left, and head up to the intersection to make a right. You'll make a right shortly after, and should have a row of blue bikes on your right. You'll want to head all the way down to the next intersection, and make the back right, so that you have the green scaffolding on your left after you turn. Behind you to your right on the corner in front of the subway entrance is a green trash bin. Touchdown is on top of the bin. Turn and go in the same direction as the traffic. Turn left at the intersection. There is a green awning on the right. Go straight at the next intersection. When you in the middle of the next intersection you will see a black and white sign with a bike on it in the middle of the street. Touchdown is on top of the sign.  Now follow the direction of traffic. Go straight forward. Stop at the second intersection. You will see across the street on your left there is a store with three red letter name. On the right side there is a store with red banners and white letter/numbers on it. Now if you turn left, you will see the day/time of the view changed. Look at that store with 3 red letter name again, the touch down is on the middle letter on that sign.  Turn so you are going with traffic. Head up the street and take a right at the light. Go one block and take a right. There will be a food cart on the left. Go straight. Travel down this street until you come to a yellow striped cement barrier. Touchdown is sitting on top of the first light at the beginning of this barrier.  Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic.At the first traffic light turn right.Proceed down this road to the next light and make another right go past the red and white awning on your right until you come to an air conditioner in a window about Four door down from the red and whits awning. Touchdown is sitting on the step in front of a glass door. Stand so you are following the flow of traffic. Move forward until it bumps you ahead right, and then you'll be able to veer back/left. Take that sharp left. Stop when you are in the center of the row of bikes to your left. There is a potted bush on the sidewalk. Touchdown is on top of the bush. Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. There should be two gold flags above an entrance on your left and two beige awnings to your right.

2. Move towards the first intersection, and pass through it. You should pass by a white and orange construction barrier and a green retaining wall on your right on your way to the next intersection. Take a left when you reach it.

3. There should be several blue bikes on the right side of the street. Take another left at the next intersection. You should see a couple of black storefronts on the left.

4. Pass through the first intersection. You're getting close! When you're even with the first bit of scaffolding on the left near the next intersection, stop.

5. To the left of the scaffolding is a planter. Touchdown is sitting on top of the plant, in the middle.

Good luck! :) Follow traffic, with the buildings with green awnings on your left, to the end of the block, and go left.  Walk down three blocks (passing through two lights on your way), and at the end of the third block, enter the intersection to stand in the middle of it.

You should see a building on your left with many red, white and blue flags jutting out.  From your vantage point in the middle of the intersection, you can also see the rather spectacular stone arch over the door.  Touchdown is adhered to the arch's keystone. this is a one way street so please orient yourself with the flow of traffic.  buildings will be on your right side. continue to the next intersection.  turn left at the intersection. there will be a bunch of bikes on your right. continue to the next intersection and turn left. continue down this one way street.  on the left side there will be a pink store sign standing on the cement ground.  go past this and when you see the lettters on the road ahead of you STOP when your standing at them. look to your left, there will be a tree. Touchdown is at the base of this tree.  Orient yourself so that the two banks are ahead of you. Go straight through the intersection and pass them. Continue forward and then turn left at the second intersection. Go forward and keep left as the road splits. You will reach an intersection where there are shops with green awnings in front of you. On your left there is a bike parked by a stop sign. The touchdown is the center of the front wheel of the bike.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Turn right at the next intersection.
You should see scaffolding ahead on the left.
Turn right at the next intersection.  The building on your left will be reddish orange with pallets in next to it.
Turn right at the next intersection.  You'll see a long blue awning on your right with a black wall above it.
Go forward a bit and when you get to a pole with a blue band at the top on your right, stop.  Touchdown is on the blue band.

 Align yourself with the flow of traffic, and go forward and make the first left. Continue down this road until the next intersection, and take another left. Continue down until you're 2 steps away from the next intersection. You should see a black fire hydrant between two red posts on your left. Touchdown is on the black hydrant. Turn so you are going in the same direction as the traffic. You will see a group of traffic cones on the sidewalk to your right.
Go to the first intersection with the large red letters and turn left.
Head down that street and turn left at the first intersection you come to.
Go down the street.
Go through the stop signs and crosswalk. Stop in front of the mid size white SUV parked on the left side of the street.
Touchdown is on top of the blue four door sedan parked on the left side of the road.

 Put the park on your left.  The take your first left.  Then take the next left.  The park will still be on your left.  Go through the first little intersection and stop.  Look left.  Bear on fire hydrant.   Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic, and head forward.  Go through 2 intersections, stop at the 3rd.  Take a small step through this intersection, and look on the street.  There is a circle with an H in it.  The bear is there.   Follow traffic to the light and go left, under the overpass.continuing to the end of the block and go to the middle of the intersection. Touchdown is at the center of the metal wire trashcan on the corner ahead and right of you. Hello. Please orient yourself with the flow of traffic. There will be scaffolding with green awning to your left. You will see a white and blue sign with letters to your right side. 

Walk forward into the four-way intersection ahead. You will shift to the right as you do this. Cross straight through it. 

At the next four-way intersection, turn right.

There will be a park with tall black gates to your left side. There will be two yellow signs with black symbols on each side of the road.

Walk forward, ignoring the three-way turn. Continue straight. There will be orange and white cones lining the right side.

When you encounter the four-way intersection, turn right.

Keep an eye on the right side of the path. Next to you will be a large white and blue bus. When you are standing next to the front of this bus, please stop. To your right on the sidewalk is a white sign with red, green, and blue accents shaped like a rectangle. 

Touchdown will be on the white sign at the top where the red accents and letters are on it. Good luck! Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the steps on your right. Continue forward to the next intersection and take a right. You should see a building with a black storefront and black awnings on your right and a store with a red and white awning on the left. Continue forward to the next intersection and take another right. You should see a building with a brown and white awning on your left and a gray building on your right. Continue moving down this road looking for a tree covered with ivy on the left. Stop just before you are in line with this tree. Turn slightly left and you should see a black fire hydrant to the right of the ivy-covered tree. Touchdown is sitting at the base of the black fire hydrant. Turn so you are facing oncoming traffic. Go straight until you get to the intersection. Take a right here. Go one block. Go straight though this light. At the next light take a right. You will see a sign with a bulls-eye on it on the right side of this street. Stop when you see a red bus parked on the left side of the street beside you. Look to your right. There is a black door with a silver square on it. Touchdown is on that silver square.  Stand so the playground/fenced court is on your left and the grass areas are on your right. Go forward, straight through a 4-way intersection and a 3-way intersection. Then you'll come to a cement patio area with a lot of green benches on your right. Just after, on your left is a playground. Touchdown is in the middle of the fence opening into the playground. Following the direction of traffic, go to the intersection and make a right. Again following the flow of traffic, go straight. Pass a building with scaffolds and port-a- potty in front on the left, then pass a fire hydrant on the left. Pass bikes locked to a bikerack on the right, followed by another fire hydrant. After that, there is a single bike chained to a street sign near a red car. Touchdown is sitting on the seat of the bike. Start off following the flow of traffic down the one way street. The store with the red awning should be on the left and the blue awning should be on the right. Go to the next intersection. On the right is a white building with yellow signs and outdoor tables. touchdown is sitting on the roof on the corner of that building. Turn so the store with the red signs is on your left and a brick building on your right. You will see a food cart on the sidewalk down the street on the left. Go straight. At the light take a right. Go straight passing through the first light you come to. At the next intersection take a right.  Go down this curved street. Stop when you see several bikes parked in the little park area on the right side of the road. There is a blue bike parked before the other bikes. Touchdown is sitting on this bike(it is slight occluded by a small tree). stay on this road and follow the traffic at the start there will be a bank on your left.
At the second light turn right, There will be a building on your right with a yellow awning.At the first  light turn right,You will go just past a parking garage on your right,just past the garage there is a mural painted on a wall ,it looks like flowers and grapes,touchdown is sitting on the ground close to to bottom grapes. Turn so the medium is to your left and sidewalk to your right. Go past the crosswalk area painted on the road and to the next corner. Turn right and go just past that next road that's right there a bit. There will be a red door to the left that Touchdown will be sitting at the base. Orient yourself so that there are dumpsters on your left side and a donut shop on your right. Go straight, Make a left at the first intersection. Just past the next intersection there will be a bank on your right and a red subway sign on your left. The touchdown is located on the blue arrow of the subway sign. Align yourself with the blue bike rental area on your left, move forward with traffic and make a right at the second intersection. There will now be a glass building on your left with green and white logos. Follow the traffic down the block and make a right at the first intersection with the scaffolding on your right. Move forward a bit and stop before reaching the white awning that has blue signs with red letters on your right. On your left, there will be a glass window with a green/white circle logo. Touchdown is on the face of the character on the green/white circle logo. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, and ignore the first intersection, take a left at the second intersection. Close to the next intersection, you should see a green awning to an entrance of a red brick building with some numbers on it. Touchdown is on the numbers. turn to go with traffic, there will be a yellow dumpster to you right.  At the 1st intersection take a right, on your left is a red brick building with green awnings, continue to the next intersection and take a right, there will be a red brick building with white fire escape ladders to the left. Continue to the next intersection, take a right and stop, to your left is a store with a purple neon oval shaped sign, the bear is in the middle of the sign Go with the flow of traffic to the first intersection and take a left turn.  The black colored business to your right is empty.  At the next intersection, turn left.  You'll have a playground to your right. Go straight though the next light and under the overpass.  Take another left at the light. The bridge should be to your left. Go to the next stop sign.  Touchdown will be on your right on the badge-like logo on the back of the parked fire truck.   With the tall chain link fence to your right, go straight to the first intersection and turn left.  You'll have scaffolding to your left.  Go to the next intersection and take another left.  There will be a construction fence to your left.  Go to the next intersection. Touchdown will be on top of the fire hydrant on the left corner. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Turn right at the next intersection.
When you do you'll see a few billboards up ahead and to the right.
Go for a while, you'll eventually pass through some silver fencing barriers, with a large stack of them on the left.
Move into the intersection and stop.
Up ahead on your left is some orange umbrellas, one has a single white section.  Touchdown is on the white of this umbrella. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
You should see scaffolding ahead on the right.
Turn right at the next intersection.  You will probably see trash everywhere on the sidewalk to the right.  To help orient you, if you look way out in the distance, you will see a tall building that has a tall tower on top of it.
Turn right at the next intersection.
Once you do you'll see brown awnings to the left and black awnings to the right.
Go forward and you'll get to a window with some orange signs with white writing on them to the left.  Touchdown is on the top orange sign. Face the closest traffic light, with the scaffolding on your right, make a quick right, go down the block and make a left, where you see the green awning on your right. Pass the scaffolding, go straight through three intersections and stop before you reach the fourth. In front of you, on the street, there are white painted thick lines. Touchdown will be on the thinner line that is connected to the fourth thick line from the right. Go in the direction of the long red awing covering the sidewalk. Turn right at the first intersection. A row of blue bikes will be on your right. Turn right again at the next intersection. Look right. Stop next to the cafe with the red awing. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the chalkboard by the door of the cafe. Orient yourself so that the scaffolding is to your left, go forward to the second intersection, where the park is to your right and make a left. 
Make your last left at the intersection, with the dark green building now on your right. 
Go forward and stop before you reach the brown building with the big red gate, on your right. Touchdown is on the bottom part of the flag pole, above that red gate.  Orient yourself so the green plywood awning held up by scaffolding is on your left and the closest intersection is behind you.  Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left.  Again, walk up the road to the intersection and turn left.  One last time, walk up the street to the intersection and turn left.  As you begin walking down the street, look the left side.  Hanging from the second story of a white store are two black banners with white letters.  When you are between the two of them, stop and turn to your RIGHT.  There is a black shop that has a red circular logo with a white symobol on it in the middle of the store banner. Turn against the traffic.  Take first left.  Then take the next left.  Continue against traffic.  Look for a full dumpster on your left.  There are 4 orange cones just past it (Behind it).  The bear is on the far right one.   GO WITH flow, GO RIGHT at light, GO RIGHT again at next light. As you come to the end of the block, you'll see a maroon entry canopy followed by blue and then green awnings, all on your right.  GO THROUGH the light.  STOP at the crosswalk just before entering the next intersection. ROTATE LEFT.  You should be facing the scaffolding on the corner, and see, slightly to your right down the side street, a square orange sign with a big, thick black arrow.  

FIND Touchdown at the tip of the arrow. Go in the same direction as traffic and turn left at the first intersection. At the next intersection, go left again.  You will see signs with crossed out trucks on each corner of the street. Go past the long brick building on your right, and look for a red building with a blue door just two buildings down on your right. Touchdown is sitting on top of the lamp on the right side of the door.  With the scaffolding and green awnings to your left go to the light and right.

Go right again at the next light and almost to the end of the street, passing a red brick building with huge red doors and then a blue awning on your right.

Stop before reaching the all white brick building with grey trim on the right, and rotate rate to stare directly at the tree on the sidewalk, in front of the building between the white brick and red brick one with the light brown door.

Touchdown is on the silver cap of the red hydrant in front of you. Follow the flow of traffic to the intersection.  Turn right.  Walk to the next intersection.  Turn right.  Continue down this road (Alien painting on your right).  At intersection turn right.  Pass the playground (On left).  There  is an orange shopping cart and fire hydrant on the left.  Pass those, then look back at them.  Bear on fire hydrant.   Go forward towards the sandlot under the red pavilion, and left as soon as you can. You'll be going with traffic, with the bridge to your left and the fenced in baseball field to your right. You will not make any more turns. Go through the next light and into the intersection of the next, such that the median, which has trees and park benches, is directly to your right. Rotate right. There's a green kiosk in the grass in front of you, atop which sits Touchdown.

 Turn so the red line is to your left and go forward.  Stop after the red entry canopy and American flag on your left, and rotate left.  

There's a small red metal dome on the red brick in front of you, to the left of the window. Touchdown is on that. Orient yourself so that the pharmacy is on your left. Continue forward through three intersections and go under the bridge. Stop while under the bridge and your should see a yellow pedestrian sign ahead and to your right. The touchdown is the sign.  Turn to go with traffic flow. Go down to the stop signs and turn right.

Follow this road down to the big arch on the right. Turn right and go through that arch. 

Go forward. This road will jut to the right just a bit where a game field is to the left behind some chain link fence. Keep going straight. 

When you are about a car's length from the intersection, look to your right and you will see a square black sign on the black fence surrounding a playground. Touchdown is in the center of the sign.
 Go with the flow of the traffic that has the concrete poles in on the double yellow lines. Take a left at the intersection. Pass by the 1st and 2nd intersections. Right before you pass by the 3rd one you should see a black and silver fire hydrant on your left. Your touchdown is the top of that fire hydrant.  Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. There should be a large pile of garbage a little further down the road on the left side.

2. Move forward until you reach an intersection, and take a left. You should still be going with the flow of traffic, and there should now be a pale building with a black awning above the entrance to your right.

3. Move forward, and take another left at the next intersection. There should now be some scaffolding and a white and orange construction barrier to your right.

4. Move forward, passing through the next intersection. Your destination is near. Keep an eye on the scaffolding to your left.

5. When the section of scaffolding that juts out is directly to your left, stop. There should also be a white delivery truck directly to your right. Poking out from behind the front of this truck is a potted plant. Touchdown is sitting in the center of the opening of this pot.

Good luck! :) Stand so you are moving with traffic. Move straight through the first intersection. Continue as the road curves right. Stop in the middle of the curve, just as two umbrellas come into view ahead of you, next to a bright food truck. Touchdown is on the first umbrella. Face the flow of traffic and go straight through the first intersection. You will go straight through two more intersections and then turn right and the intersection where there is construction on the right building. Continue straight and stop before the next intersection. There will be a store on the right with a yellow and black diamond-shaped sign. The touchdown is on the diamond sign. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the large billboard on the building to your right and the mirrored high rises in the distance. Move forward going straight past the nearby three-way intersection. You should see a square electronic billboard to the right ahead of you. Continue down the street moving forward towards the billboard. You will pass the billboard and come to an intersection that has a food cart on the right and a row of police cars ahead of that. Continue moving forward until you are just before the near crosswalk of the next intersection. Turn to your right slightly and you will see a square Red Bull coming out of the ground with two yellow bollards on either side of it. Touchdown is sitting at the base of the red pole. On your left you'll see green mailboxes with white graffiti written all over them. On your right you should see a bus bench with a shelter built over it sitting directly in front of a brick building with air-conditioners in the windows. You will cross the street and continue straight. Once you reach the next intersection you will make a right turn. Now head straight you will pass a building that is made of brick with a red door on your right. When you reach the next intersection you will make a right turn. To your left is a building with a green awning and a red sign they also have a black sign with white letters. They have a bunch of flowers sitting out front. You will head to the next intersection, but do not cross. Look to your right there is a green mailbox with white and red graffiti. Touchdown is sitting directly on top of this mailbox. Follow the flow of traffic and then turn left at the intersection. When possible, make a U-turn and go straight. You will see a grassy area on your left. The touchdown is a red fire hydrant that says "36" on it. It is right on the "36". Orient yourself so you are facing the same way as the traffic and looking at the closest intersection.  Walk forward into the intersection and turn right.  Walk down this long road until you are right at the beginning of the overpass, and can turn right.  Take that right turn and head down this road.  Go straight at the intersection where the overpass traffic merges with the road you're on.  At the next intersection, turn right.  There is a large green wall to your right as soon as you turn.  It has a black sign that has white and orange letters.  The sign also has an orange circle with a black arrow on it.  Touchdown is in the center of that orange circle. Follow traffic through the first light and make a right at the second. Go right again at the end of the block, where the orange and white k-walls in front of the green walls on the right end.  Stop at the last piece of green construction wall, before it turns to chain-link fencing with brown canvas.

Rotate right to face the green wall.  There's a single square cut out where a silver pipe can be seen.  Touchdown is center of the emptiness of that beckoning hole. Put the bridge on your left and move along it. Turn right when the road ends. Touchdown is sitting on a yard lamp just outside of the high brown building you see coming up on the right. Align yourself so the school buses are on your right. Go straight when you get to the first left turn, and you're almost there.

You'll pass a red awning on your right and shortly after stop in front of the shuttered graffiti doors. There's a red bell above what looks like a graffiti painted tree. Touchdown is on the bell. From your starting point, please turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  You should see an intersection and two red, hexagon shaped signs directly in front of you. Walk forward into the intersection, and take a right, so that you are still walking in the same direction as traffic.  You should see a green lane on your left, and some white and purple flags on your right.  Now just follow the green lane until you come to another intersection.  

Turn to your left at this intersection.  You should be facing down a narrow lane with a bicycle logo on the left of the road surface.  You should also see some trashcans on the left.  One has a blue lid, another has a green lid.  Walk down this narrow lane.  If you see an orange cone on top of a parked van, you are on the right track (as that probably isn't happening anywhere else in New York).  Just keep walking straight, and pass a long row of orange cones in front of that van.  Ignore the first side street on your right.  You want to keep moving forward, with the park on your left.  

You will see a pile of cardboard boxes on your right, and then another orange cone on the back of a pickup truck on your left.  (I think these photos might have been taken on Halloween?)  Just keep going forward, and ignore another side street on your right.  

Finally, you will come to another intersection.  This time, you will see an electronic sign and some orange and white construction barriers up ahead on the opposite side.  Walk past the side street to your right, but then stop just before you come to the orange and white barriers.  You should now be in the right place to find the bear. 

Look up and to your left and you should see a yellow, diamond-shaped sign with a see-saw icon on it.  Touchdown is sitting right on top of the highest point of this sign. Turn to face the very narrow street between two contrition barriers painted green.  The building on the right is visible with large boarded up windows once you move down the road.  Follow the road, watching the short barriers on the left and continue until you see 4 solid orange barriers in a row. Travel another two car lengths and look to the right.  There is a statue in a glass enclosure.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the head of the statue. Align yourself with the blue awning on your right, and head straight towards the construction sign street.

Continue through the first intersection, and take a right at the second. There should be a blue awning on your left followed by a black gate on this street. Follow it down to the next intersection. 

Head a step past the intersection and you should see a hydrant in front of a pedestrian crossing sign, touchdown is on the tip of the hydrant. Orient yourself so that you are facing into the center of the intersection. Step forward into the center so that you can now leave 4 ways. You need to move so that on your right is the white brick building with blue awnings, and on your left is white awnings with gold writing. Move ahead to the next intersection and turn right.

Continue, passing a scaffolding section on your right and then there will be scaffolding on both sides of you. When you reach an intersection, turn right. Pass a long light green awning on your right and stop. Just after that is a small round blue sign with a bus on it, on top of a pole. Touchdown is on the blue sign. Start out by facing the same direction as the parked cars.  This is a one way street. Go forward until you come to the first stoplight.   Turn right.  There should now be a business with a bright green store name on your right.  Go forward until you come to the next stoplight. Turn right.  Travel straight down this street until you are almost to the next intersection.  Just before you reach the intersection, you should see a blue sign with a coffee cup and an arrow on your right.  Touchdown is in the middle of the brown section of the coffee cup. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Turn right at the next intersection.
When you do you'll have the blue jutting awning on your left.
Turn right at the next intersection.
When you do, you should see a orangish red brick building on your right striped with grey.
Turn hard right at the next intersection.
If you're in the right place you should see a purple flag on the right with a white flag behind it.
Go until you're almost under the purple flag.  Touchdown is on the white box in the middle of it. Align yourself with the small road with fencing on your right, and a wrap around red awning on your left. Head up the small road.

You'll head past the first intersection, and make a right at the second. There should be a black fence on your left after you turn. head up in to the next intersection where you have the choice to turn left or right. You should see 5 little striped posts in front of you. Touchdown is on the left most post top. Turn so you have the green scaffolding on your left side. Go straight on a long block. You'll pass a building with arched windows  and a wide painted dark grey stairs on the right side.Keep going. You will see a building with a circle on it to the right. At the intersection where that building is a 3 way intersection. You need to get turned to the left (it's almost like turning around because the street is angled) so that the glass coffee shop is on your right side and some small red awnings on the left. Go straight down this street.  You'll pass orange and white barriers and orange metal fencing on the right side. At the intersection turn left. Once you are turned there is a blue awning on your left side with a yellow stripe. You'll also see some artwork on a black background with white designs on the left just past that. Go straight. At the first intersection go straight a little more. Stop a short distance past that intersection next to a small purple cover over a door to the left. . You'll see a couple red awnings underneath a green covered scaffolding just ahead of you.There is a light pole next to the phones on the left side. Touchdown is at the base of that pole on the ground. Going in the same direction as traffic, you'll pass a hot dog cart on the left. At the first intersection, make a left. There will be scaffolding with a green awning on the left corner. At the next intersection, turn left. There is more construction scaffolding with green awnings on the left side. The street is cobblestone but is partially covered in asphalt. At the intersection, turn left. Before the large building with the blue scaffolding on the left is a white building with fire escapes on the front. Touchdown is in the middle of the sign on the lowest level of the fire escape. Face the direction so you are facing the hotel with red lettering. There will be a pharmacy to your left with blue letters and a bank with a green sign to your right. Go straight until you get to the intersection and then turn left. Now there will be a bank with a red sign and blue letters to your left. Go straight, this should be a one way. You will pass a building with 2 letters in red on your left. Keep straight. When you get to the yellow building on your right take a left. There will be a gray building with four orange letters on your right corner. Touchdown will be on the first big orange letter.  Step into the intersection and go down the street with the large blue tarp hanging off the green scaffolding. Turn right at the first intersection.  More green scaffolding on the right side. Turn right again at the next intersection. Turn right at the next intersection. The scaffolding blocks half the street. Stop just before the large pile of trash and trash bags on the right. There is a light on the green scaffolding above the trash bags. Touchdown is sitting on the light just above the junk chair. Orient yourself so that the green awning is to your right. Go straight through the next intersection; it has a building under construction. When you reach an intersection with big trees and a church to the left, keep going straight. finally take a left around the church. At the next intersection there is chain link fence to the left. There are also three greenish mailboxes to the right. Touchdown is sitting on the middle one. Face so there is a row of trees with flowers at their bases on your right.  Go forwards to the intersection and turn right.  After the turn you'll see a store with a red awning ahead on your right.  Go forwards through the first intersection and stop just before the second intersection.  Look to your right and there will be a black fire hydrant with a silver top on the street corner.  Touchdown is at its base. Follow the flow of traffic. You should see a bunch of garbage on the corner to the right. continue straight through this intersection. Now you're going to come up on another intersection and before you do, you should see a mural on the right. Now at this intersection, you need to take a left. First you should see a brown delivery truck and then it will change to a white one. Go to the small road ahead and take a left. It's a one way. Now take a left. You should see SCHOOL on the ground. Go pst that until you get close to the black electric van. Look left. Your touchdown is the green part that's laying next to the plotted tree that doens't have any leaves really. 
 Align yourself so that the red brick building is directly on your right. Head up to the intersection to make a right, then another right at the first intersection after. On this road, you'll pass a green wall as you turn behind a fire hydrant to your left.

Head mostly down the road until a few steps before the intersection. Stop at the end of the construction barricades, and look down at the last one faced a different way than the others, up against the scaffolding. Touchdown is in the hole at the top of the barricade. Align yourself so the foot card with the blue and yellow umbrellas is on your left. Head up with the flow of traffic, and head straight through the first intersection, making a right at the second. There should be a line of taxis parked on this street. You'll pass the first set of red signs, and head up to the second red sign on your left. Touchdown is in the middle of the bigger sign on the pole. Go straight, moving the wrong way against traffic. Move into the intersection that you come to and look for a light pole on the left corner. Midway up this pole are 2 cross walk signs. Touchdown is sitting right in between these sign on the pole.  Turn and go in the same direction as the traffic. A dumster is on the right. Turn right at intersection. Orange barricades on the right. YOu will go under 
 2 bridges. And before you enter another one you will see a green and white sign above it. Touchdown is in the middle of sign.  Go with traffic flow and turn left at the intersection right in front of you. 

Still with traffic flow, go to the next intersection and turn left.

This is a long block so keep going forward until the next intersection, stopping in the crosswalk before moving into it.

Turn to your right and see a black building with round yellow lights on it. Touchdown is in the center of the light closest to the corner.  Turn so that the water is on your left.  Walk forward along the flow of traffic. Make sure to stay in the right lane so that you can turn down the ramp. Keep going down the ramp. Make sure to keep right. Go down the ramp until the metal railing meets the concrete railing. If you look to your right should see a green dumpster, a black fence, and a small white sign with a star on it on a skinny post. Touchdown is in the middle of the white and red sign. Turn so the blue bikes are on your left. Take a right at the intersection.o Go a short distance to the next light. Take a right. Go straight down this street. Go almost to the end stopping at the end of the row of blue bikes on the left side of the street. Touchdown is sitting on the seat of the very last bike closest to the intersection.   Orient yourself so that there is an offramp directly in front of you and you are going with the flow of traffic.  You want to go down this offramp.  Head all the down the ramp, onto the street, then into an intersection.  Turn right at this intersection.  There will be scaffolding on your left and brick apartment building on your right.  Go down this street until you come to a stoplight.  The intersection here will have metal barricades and huge, reddish planters blocking what used to be a street off to the left.  Stop just before you cross over the second crosswalk.  Turn 45 degrees to your right.  Hanging off the light pole is a green sign with a white arrow pointing straight ahead.  Touchdown is sitting in front of the middle of this green sign.   Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic. Go straight through the first intersection you come to. Go straight through the next intersection too. Turn right at the third intersection.  You will now be going the wrong way down a one way street. Go past some colorful neon signs and some green and gray scaffolding on your left.  When you get past the scaffolding, you should see a yellow sign with red letters on your left.  Past that, you should see a blue and white banner sticking out from the building next to an arched doorway. Touchdown is in the middle of the circle on the banner. Turned against traffic, enter the intersection, just pass the crosswalk.  Rotate left, and find touchdown on top, center of the wire metal trash can. Head straight with the flow of traffic. Go straight past the first and second intersection. Turn right at the third intersection. There should be a building with a lot of glass on your left. Keep going straight all the way down this road and stop just before the intersection. Look to your left and you should see a black door with an arch and two lights above. The touchdown is on the right light. Orient yourself with the trash to your left. Go straight through the first intersection. Take a right. Take another right. Go straight along the cobblestone road and through the first intersection. When you reach a burger truck to your left and an alleyway to your right, stop. Touchdown is on the red octagon up ahead. So you're going to start with the floor of the traffic and go to the next intersection, then you are going to take a right. On your left you should see a deli and on the right you will pass scaffholding and a bus stop. Keep forward. Go to the next intersection and take a right. You should see a market on the left and in front of that is scaffholding. Follow this until the next intersection then take a right. You should see a corner diner. Keep straight until you get to the white van. Your touchdown will be in the middle of the right arrow sign.  Orient yourself so that the closest gray building is to your left and the traffic lanes are to your right. Move forward, passing the bus stop, completely passing the gray building and reaching the corner. Move completely into that small intersection. You should now be standing in the middle of that intersection, in front of the painted white lines on the road and the painted arrow pointing at you. Look to your left, Touchdown will be sitting on top of the olive green mailbox. Turn so you're facing the nearby intersection, and across the intersection on your left you can see the building with big green, yellow, and blue blocks sticking out over the sidewalk.  Move into the intersection and turn left.
Now the building with the colorful blocks is on your right (there are yellow and green ones immediately to your right on this block).  Go forward to the end of this long block, and turn left.  
Now you'll have a building with red walls on the ground floor and white panels on the second floor on your left.  In this building there is a doorway with black trim right after the red part of the wall.  Stop when you're even with this doorway.  Above the doorway, and above the white panels, is an air conditioner.  The bear is sitting on top of the air conditioner. Align yourself against traffic so the scaffolding is on your left. Head down to the intersection to make a right. You'll pass straight through a first intersection, then a second, and finally, you'll have the choice to veer right, then stop after veering. On your left you should see the end of scaffolding, with an arrow going through a heart as a mural  Touchdown is in the center of the heart. Turn to face the  flow of traffic. Go forwar and go uner a bridge. As soon as you go under bridge there will be a vent on the right side of the road by the concrete side. Touchdown is sitting on the right side of the vent. Turn to go with traffic, where the rental bikes are on your right. Go to the corner and turn left. When you turn there is a cream colored building with a big fire escape on your left. Go to the next corner and turn left. When you turn there is a cream building on the left with pillars and a gray building on the right with pillars.
Go to the next corner and turn left.
Go down this street to the next corner. As you enter the intersection, there is a gray pole with an arrow pointing one way, an arrow pointing the other way, a black sign with a bike, and a white sign with a car and a red circle with a slash through the car. Touchdown is in that circle. Turn to face with traffic, then go straight, past the first intersection, to the second one. Now turn to the left, there will be a row of school buses on your left, and a tall building that is mostly glass windows on your right. Now go forward, to the end of this block. which ends with a tall glass building and a tall brick building. Now turn left, towards the brick building, and go to the end of the block again, but stop right before the crosswalk. There will be a tree with green leaves on your left, and one with yellow leaves on right. Touchdown is right in front of the yellow one. Turn to go with traffic flow. Thee will be a dark green canopy to the left, and a lighter green round canopy to your right. 
Go to the first intersection you come to and turn left.
Going with traffic flow, go to the next intersection.
As you are going through this intersection take a right and stop. 
Turn so you are facing traffic in the direction you just turned. There is a red umbrella on the left. Touchdown is on top of that umbrella. Turn and notice a restaurant  with a green storefront covered in plants, you want this to your right side. Proceed straight ahead through the traffic light towards the one way street in front of you and slightly to the left.
You now have a orange/red brick building to your right and a restaurant with a black awning to your left, continue ahead on this road.
You will shortly approach a T intersection that you can turn right on, turn right on this street. If you see a line of blue bicycles ahead on your left, you are on the correct street.
Continue ahead to the first traffic light and make a right hand turn, getting close now.
Heading down this street keep your attention to the right hand side of the street, you will shortly come across a building with a light wooden door with notices on the door window, two planters on the stoop and flower boxes on the windows.

Touchdown is sitting on the stoop at the bottom of the door.

 Go with traffic, with the green awning to your right, to the light and go right. Go right again at the next light. Go right again at the next light. There will be k-walls in front of green panels to your left.  Stop just before crossing the crosswalk at the end of the block.

The building to your left has two metal roll-up doors, a light brown lower story and a white brick upper story. Rotate left to face it.  There's a thin white metal pole jutting out on the right edge of the building. Touchdown is impaled on the end of it. Keep the traffic median to your left and walk forward. You're going to go through one intersection. At the next one, make a left and then a left again - like you're making a U turn.

Now you're heading back in the direction you cam from, but on the other side of the road. Go down to the next intersection - the one you went straight through before.

Go through the intersection then stop and look to the right. It should have a wooden wheelchair access ramp. Touchdown is on the very top of the ramp (at same level as the top of the stairs).
 With the parked blue bikes and fenced in area in the middle of the road to your left, walk into the intersection, and go left when you've cleared that; there'll now be a store with a blue sign band with white glyphs to your right.

Walk to the light and go left. Walk forward towards the overpass, WITHOUT passing the scaffolding on your left and the store with the white sign band and red glyphs on your right.  Instead, turn left before the crosswalk, and walk up the street with the white and orange Jersey barriers to your right and the parked blue bikes to your left now. The view will change when you walk into this street.

Walk forward until you see the white bicycle icon painted on the asphalt in the middle of the street in front of you. Touchdown is dead center in the red hexagonal sign ahead and to your right.  Orient yourself so that you'll be going with the flow of traffic down a narrow road.  There will be a business with a blue logo on red to your left and on your right there will be aqua posters in the windows.  Go to the next intersection and turn right. There's a ornate red post on your right.  Go to the next intersection and take a right turn.  There's two trees on your right.  Touchdown is on a red sign after the second tree. Orient yourself so you are facing the tall glass skyscrapers.  there should be a brick building on your right.  move forward past this brick building and look to your right, there is another path you can take that is parallel to the main road.  try to get onto that walking/parking path.  do not stay on the main road.    If you are on the correct road, you will pass under part of the glass building and continue going forward.  Just as you come out from under the building, you will see a dark green and blue sign.  touchdown bear is at the base of this sign. From your starting point, please turn around so that the red and white signs in the windows are on your right.  You should be facing the backs of some parked cars on both sides of a one-lane road.  Walk down this road.  It's a long walk, but just go straight until you reach an intersection.

When you get to the middle of the intersection, turn around so that you see some scaffolding and a dark green awning on your right.  You should, again, be facing the backs of some parked cars.  Now start walking down this street, and stop in the middle of the next intersection you come to.  

Stop here, and turn around to look behind you.  You should see, on your left, a shop with a brown awning.  There is a small red post on the sidewalk.  Touchdown the bear is sitting right on top of that post



 Turn to face with traffic, then go forward until there is an intersection on your left. You will see a building under construction across the street. Now turn left, and go to the second four way intersection. Turn around and you'll see a mailbox, touchdown is on top of it. Align yourself with the school bus on your left, and the construction blockades on your right. Head to the intersection and make a right. You'll see a red and white sign in front of you on the right, pass it and you should see a second red sign on your right. Touchdown is in the middle of the sign. Turn so you are going with traffic. Go with traffic to the intersection ahead and take a left. Go one block and take a left. There will be several brown benches along the store to your right. Go about half way down this road. Stop when you are at the small construction site on the right side of the road. Look to the right at the walk up with a black door. Touchdown is to the right of this entrance in the middle of the ac unit sticking out of the building.  You are on a one way road, go with the flow of traffic. At the next three way intersection you will make a left. There will be a row of blue community bikes to your right. At the next intersection you will make a left. To your right will be an archway filled in with green. At the next intersection you will make another left. There will be a parked fire truck to your left. At the next intersection you will go slightly to the left and stop in the middle. Orient yourself so that the building with the horizontal blue stripe is on your right and the building with the brown awning is on your left. Turn to the corner to the left with the building with the brown awning and you will see one sign with an orange animal and one with a pink animal. Touchdown is on the nose of the orange animal.  Go down the one way with the orange and white road barriers to the right. Turn left at the first intersection. Turn left again at the next intersection. A flower shop is on the corner. Enter the middle of the next intersection and stop just before the street divider is on your left and right. Look at the street divider on the left and there is a row of small gray poles with chains linking them together. Touchdown is sitting on top of the first gray pole. You're going start with the flow of the traffic. Go down to the intersection and take a left. Follow that road until you get to the 3 way intersection and then take a left. You will be against traffic now. Follow that until you get to the fenced in cars on the left. There are two little gates that are locked by a chain. Your touchdown will be the sign on the right little gate.  Follow traffic, through the light and go right at the light after that.  At the next light, go left, just enough that you're facing down the two brick buildings of that street. On the left corner is a red call box. Touchdown is atop it. Turn around and align yourself so the hydrant is on your left. Make a right at the intersection, After one right in front of you, you should see a red newspaper box next to a  yellow one. Touchdown is on the yellow newspaper box top. Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Pass straight through one intersection and at the next intersection, turn right. Continue to the next intersection and go right again. Then pass straight through the next intersection. Soon after it, up ahead on your right is a green street sign. Touchdown is in the middle of the sign. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Head down the street and turn left at the first intersection.
You will see a red painted lane in the road and black trim on a storefront on the right with building being brick the rest of the way up.
Head straight down this road (may take some maneuvering) and turn left at the next intersection.  Once you do, the building on your right will be painted like the clouds.  Go forward into the crosswalk and look right.  Touchdown is on the red fire hydrant. go down the street with the flow of traffic go past the stop sign and at the first traffic light turn left. go past the next traffic light and turn right as soon as you cross the street.just as you cross the street there is a garbage can on your left and touchdown is sitting on top of the garbage can Turn so the bright white painted building is on your left side. It has thin dark trim and no wood showing. Go straight.  At the first intersection keep going straight. This block is a little longer and you'll pass some construction on the left and some blue awnings on the right as you go. At the next intersection go straight again. You'll see a theatre on your right side. Keep going. You won't get to the end of this block. You'll come up on a light grey awning on your left side. Go a little further. When you see a dark red/burgundy awning on the left side stop when it's next to you. Face the left and it's right in front of you. Touchdown is in the middle of the bench in the bus shelter.  Turn so you'll be going with the flow of traffic.  Walk ahead to the intersection and turn right.  Walk down this long block until you're almost at the next intersection.  As you get close to the intersection you'll see a bunch of blue rental bikes on the right side.  Move ahead until you're even with the big empty space on the bike rack (where there are no bikes parked).  On the wall in this area there is a bright red door.  The bear is right on the number on the door. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the scaffolding on your left. Move forward a bit and you'll see an area of construction on your right and an entrance to a parking garage on the left. Go forward so that you are in line with the entrance to the parking garage in stop. Turn the face the entrance of the parking garage and touchdown will be at the point of the arrow painted on the ground of the entrance lane to the parking garage. Follow the flow of traffic and go to the intersection.  Turn left.  At next intersection, turn left.  Head down this road.  There is a white building on the right.  Just before this building there is a green pipe near the floor.  The bear is on top. Align yourself with the flow of traffic so that the beer ad truck is on your left, and you see a turning car in front of you. Follow this road to the first intersection and make a right. Make the first right you see, at the next intersection. Follow the blue car down a few steps until you see a red store, and to the right, next door to that, a kind of dingy house with a gate and steps up. Touchdown is on the cross on the door. Turn so you are facing away from the nearest intersection and walk forward with the flow of traffic.

At the first intersection, turn left. Walk one block down to the next intersection. You'll pass a blue awning on your right and scaffolding on your left.

At the first intersection on this road, turn left. You'll see scaffolding on both sides of the street this time. Walk forward down and through the first intersection.

Once you are straight through the last intersection, you'll see a business with a black sign, white letters, and a blue logo on the left corner. There will be a business with a red sign and blue letters on the right corner. Outside the right side business there is a short pipe with two outlets. Touchdown is sitting on top of the pipe. Turn and go in the same direction as the traffic. A fence with vines growing on it is on the right. You will come up on a right turn before the intersection. Turn right. On the right will be a gray building with alot of windows that are orangish color. At the stop signs turn right. A bike parking is on your left.Turn right at the next intersection. When you look ahead there is a bridge. Before you get to the bridge you will see on your right a green awning and touchdown is sitting on top.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
You will pass scaffolding on both sides.
Turn left at the next intersection and you'll be near a green awning on your left with a red storefront after it.  Go forward.

Turn left at the next intersection right after the scaffolding.  Go forward a bit and keep an eye on the left side of the road.  You'll see a large white sign with red writing and some arrows pointing down.

Touchdown is on the rightmost arrow on this sign. Turn so you are heading with the flow of traffic.  Take the first right, then the next right.  Go down this road and pass the building with the fancy entrance on your right.  Immediately after is a plain white building with white tables and chairs inside.  The bear is on the first table.   Go into the nearest intersection. Go in the direction of the dumpster with the blue tarp on it. Turn right at the first intersection. Look right and stop just pass the fire hydrant between two poles on the corner. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant. Align yourself with traffic and move forward. Take a left at the intersection and walk forward to the next intersection. Take another left. Again walk to the next intersection and take a left. Walk forward to the intersection one last time. In front of you is an orange ladder. Touchdown is on the first step of the ladder from the left.  Put the trees on your left, and take the first right.  Then stay left towards the rental bikes.  Pass the bikes and turn right.  Go straight through this intersection, then take the next right.  Pass the tractor and turn right at the next intersection.  Stay right at the fork.  Pass the green sidewalk overhang and stop.  Look right at the entrance door under the overhang.  The bear is in the white lamp on the left.   Turn to go down a one way with the red pole to your left, there is a blue awning ahead on the left. At the 1st intersection take a left, there is a building with blue doors on the right. Go to the next intersection and go to the farther left, the building with the red top and gray bottom will be on your right, and a medium on your left, at the next intersection take a left, the building on your right has painted its trim in multiple colors. There is a hydrant on the street outside this building, the bear is on top Turn yourself so you are facing traffic.  You should see trees on your left and storefronts on your right as you head down the street.  Turn right at the first intersection.  You should see a building with blue signage on your left as you move down the street.  Turn right at the next intersection. You should see orange and white construction barriers in the middle of the street as you head down it.  Continue down the street past the pink and white banners attached to poles on the right.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the red awning just past the second banner.  He is sitting on top of the awning near the street. Follow the flow of traffic, with the yellow pedestrian sign on your right, and make a quick right before you pass the triangular sidewalk with the trees. The school will now be on your left. Pass the park and continue down the street, you will pass the first traffic light and stop when you reach a side street on your left and scaffolding on your right. Touchdown is on the black fire hydrant with a with top that is on your right, near the tree Position yourself so the scaffolding is on your left and you're moving with the flow of traffic. Turn left at the first intersection. After you turn, you'll see four blue awnings in a row on your left. 

At the next intersection, turn left again. A dark red flag is hanging from a pole over a doorway on your right and you'll see green scaffolding up ahead on your left. Continue straight until you see a building on your left that has a row of ornate pillars at the second floor level. Look for the second set of stairs and doors. One door is open. The steps are bright red and there are flower planters on both sides of them. Touchdown is sitting on the ground in front of the planter to your left. With the fenced in park to your left, go to the light. and go left, so the park, and the orange umbrellas behind the black fence, are on your left. Go left again, so the park remains on your left, and the shop with the colorful mural over its security door is on your right. Proceed, watching to your right for a small fenced in area with some painted murals on the wall.  Right past it is a red brick building with a green awning, next to a white building.

Rotate left.  There's a black building, with a white fire escape. Touchdown is on the lowest rung of the ladder of that, in front of the black shop. Follow the flow of traffic to the next intersection.  Turn left.  Then take the next left.  Continue past the construction things on the left.  Pass the tall ladder on the right.  On your right look at the store fronts.  Stop when you are looking at a store with 2 logo's that have diamonds around them (On window).  Bear is sitting on top or right diamond. Look for the one way sign on top of the back of a stop sign (not the one on the green pole.) and go in that direction.
It is not far
On your left, you will see a red brick building with yellow windows and doors.
Touchdown is on the handle of the set of yellow double doors. 
 Turn to find the closest intersection to you and go in that direction.
Turn left at the first intersection. A one way street with road work happening.
Turn left at the next intersection. 
Turn left again at the next intersection. 
On the left side there is a black and gray fire hydrant. Touchdown is on top of the black and gray fire hydrant. 


 Turn so you're going in the correct direction on this one-way street (check the one way signs and arrows on the road).  Go straight until you see the road split in front of you at the stop signs.  Turn right at the split with the stop signs. You'll see a school crossing area ahead (marked with signs and on the road).  After you've gone through the school crossing, keep an eye on the right side of the road.  There is someone with a bunch of bags of trash or moving stuff on the side of the road.  Pass the junk pile and double parked car, and stop when you're just in front of that double parked car.  Turn back around to see the person with the piles of trash bags and stuff.  The bear is sitting on top of the only bag that's brown (color of a brown grocery bag). Go in the same direction as the traffic, with the construction on your left, go forward, passing the red gates on your right, and stop before you reach the orange store sign. Turn to your right and look at the building with the red gates, Touchdown will be at the tip of top of the flagpole. If you are in the correct position there is a parking lot to your left. The parking lot has a fence around it was razor wire on top. To your right you will see construction barriers with orange and white stripes. Please head straight on the street.
Once you reach the first intersection please turn left.
You will know you're in the proper road if you look to the right and see a blue and a yellow paper box chained to a pole.
Go straight until you reach the next intersection then turn left.
You will be walking between lots of brick buildings on either side of you. Keep an eye to your right as eventually you will come to a building with a yellow sign in black and red Chinese characters and red print. In front of the sign you will see us sign on the sidewalk it is white and has a red circle touchdown is directly in front of the sign. Position yourself so the food vendor with the red umbrella is on your right and a motorcycle and scooter are parked on your left. Begin moving with the flow of traffic. Go straight through the first intersection you get to. After you cross the intersection, there will be orange fencing on your left. 

When you get to the next intersection, turn right and stop immediately. Move forward just a bit until you're in line with a business on your left with a black storefront and orange block lettering. There's a symbol of a coffee mug at the left corner of the sign. Touchdown is sitting on top of the mug.  Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. There should be a few red awnings to your left and a red, white, and blue awning to your right.

2. When you reach the next intersection, you'll be forced to turn right. When you reorient yourself, there should be a large light green building with a statue in front of it to your right.

3. Take another right at the next intersection. When you reorient yourself, there should be several blue bikes to your left.

4. When you reach the next intersection, take yet another right. When you reorient yourself, there should be a food cart to your right. Your destination is close.

5. When you see that there's a building with a blue awning and some hedges in front directly to your right, stop. Touchdown is sitting on the ground in the center of the open doorway.

Good luck! :) turn so that the white building with black fire escapes in to your left, to your right should be a storefront with a white blue and yellow sign over the windows, shortly ahead and to the left are two flags hanging in front of a business.
Now travel straight ahead and at the first intersection turn right. After turning there should be a brick building to your right that's first story is grey and the remainder of the building red.
Proceed ahead on this street.
As you approach the next intersection there will be a square sign that is white black and red with the image of a person. notice that after this you can bear to the right for local traffic, go ahead and bear to the right, you should see orange and white jersey barriers to your left .
Across the street to the right on the sidewalk see a red fire hydrant flanked by two posts. Touchdown is sitting on top of this red fire hydrant.

 Follow traffic to the light and go right. Go right again at the next light.  Go almost to the end of the block, and stop before reaching the red sign band with white letters on your right, where the last window with fencing in front of it is. Rotate right to face it.

Touchdown is atop the light between the last two windows of the building on the right to have green fencing in front of them. Turn so you going with traffic. You will see 2 bridges ahead of you. Go straight. You will pass a baseball field on your right. There is a gray building just past this field. Stop when are just shy of the middle of the building. Look to your right. There is a door with numbers on it and a small flag jutting out. Touchdown is in the middle of this square flag.  Go with traffic flow with umbrellas on your right. Turn left at the intersection.
Still going with traffic flow, go all the way down, past the trees on the left, past the construction scaffolding on the right and turn left.
Go to the next intersection and turn left again.When you are at a place where there are cream colored buildings on both sides, you will see some construction barriers on the road in front of you to the right. There is a light pole on the sidewalk where those barriers are, and Touchdown is at the base of that light pole, but near the barrier.
 Face in the direction the cars are pointing to. There will an intersection close by. Take a right at this first intersection. There will be a green bike path on the right side. At the next light, take a right turn again. Follow this street to the next intersection and take another right. On the left with bee a grassy section on the left, dividing the street. A large sidewalk is on the right side. Next intersection takes a right again. You will turn onto a street with a line of parked cars on both sides. On the right side of the street, there is a set of bright red double doors with slim windows. The Touchdown is on the left door window. You start very near an intersection. Turn facing the intersection. Move forward and turn left at the intersection. Overgrown trees will line a fence on your left.
Turn right at the next intersection. (motorcycles parked on the right soon as you turn.)  
Keep straight pass the road work and stop just behind a blue van on the right with the words bright light on it. (you should be able to still see the licence plate of the blue van.)
Touchdown is on the word "light".
 Turn and walk in the same direction as traffic. Go right at the first intersection you come to. There will be a shop sign immediately to your right with green letters outlined in black.  Walk ahead. Go right at the next intersection. You should be on a one way street, going with traffic.  Pass by a black iron fence on your left with red dots all over it. Past that fence, notice an ornately trimmed white door ahead on your left. Walk just past it, turning back around to face it. The door has a window in it that is shaped somewhat like a stop sign. Touchdown is right in the middle of that window.  Turn so the green stripe painted on the asphalt is to your left and behind you.  Go forward, then immediately right, so that now the scaffolding with Jersey walls is to your left.  When you reach the light, go right, so that the bike rack with the white bollards with double grey stripes is on your left.

At the end of the block, go right, but don't pass the crosswalk.  

Ahead and to your right on the sidewalk, between two silver bollards, is a black hydrant with a white cap. Touchdown is sitting on the white cap. Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Go forward to the next intersection, and turn right. At the next intersection, go right again. Go forward until you come to green scaffolding on the left. Just before it starts, there is a building with green doorways. Touchdown is on top of the open green doorway. Position yourself so the red striped awning is on your right, and turn right at the intersection in front of you. At the next intersection, take another right. Now, there are two American flags just ahead on your right. 

Walk past those flags, and notice the black canopy extending across the sidewalk on your left. Just after that, there is a fenced in parking lot on your right. On one side of the gate is a yellow pole. Touchdown is perched on top of that pole.  Turn to where you're going with traffic. Go forward a little and turn left at the intersection. Go forward down the street until you come to another intersection and then turn left again. go straight down this street and you'll come to another intersection go straight just to the start of the street in front of you. Look to your right and you'll see a pot with a plant in it. The bear is on the center of the pot of the plant. Going with the flow of traffic, go to the first intersection and take a right.  Now, go straight passing the first intersection and turning right at the second.  There should be a bank with bright red paint on the right side.  Touchdown is on the first lamp post past the bank in the flower basket.  This will be a long straight walk, with no intersections.  

Turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  The orange-walled building should be on your right.  

Walk forward, keeping to the left of a guardrail and concrete barrier (those should be on your right as you pass).  Keep moving, and you will go up a hill.  Keep going forward, as the road levels out.  

You should see a large basketball court down below, on your right.  As you come to the end of the basketball courts (where you should see a lot of orange and white construction barriers) stop and look down.  There will be three port-a-potties on the road down below you.  Walk forward until you are looking right down at them.

Touchdown is sitting on top of a crushed orange barrel that in the gap between one blue port-a-potty and two green ones with brown/maroon doors. Go in the direction that places the older looking green awning with lights to the left of you. At the next intersection make a right. At the very next intersection make a right again. Ahead of you on the left, you will see three yellow cab SUVs parked, stop just before these and turn to the left. You will see a store front with a green awning and to the left of this you will see two orange and white traffic cones. Touchdown is on top of the traffic cone that is closest to the tall gray door. Follow traffic to the end of the block and go left. then left again at the light. You'll pass a building with black awnings on your right. At the end of that block, go left again. Ahead and left will be a building with a red awning with white writing. Go just past it and look right, into the bus shelter.   Touchdown is sitting on the divider on the bench inside it. Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic.  Take your first right, then the next right.  There will be a giant red flag on your left.  Take a few steps towards the red flag, but stop before you read it.  Look in the window reflection.  You will see the blue camera on your blue car.  The bear is on that. Go into the nearest intersection and turn left.  A church will be on the left. Turn left at the next intersection. Stop at the last red brick building before the intersection on the right. You will see a row of green and blue dumpsters next to a green fence to your right behind the building. There is a yellow pole in front of the dumpsters to the left. Touchdown is sitting on top of the yellow pole.  Orient yourself so that there are two mailboxes to your left. go straight and take a right. Take another right. Go straight down a street with barriers to the left. Take another right. Then go straight and take another right. Go straight a bit and there is a roof with gold themed lights to the right. Touchdown is in the doorway to the right, on the floor. Start going straight, following the flow of traffic. 
Go straight through an intersection. 
When you get to the second intersection, there is a traffic light, turn left. 
Orient yourself so you are looking down the street and moving with the flow of traffic. You will pass a large yellow bin on the left with a blue tarp inside and a sign on the front saying lane closed.
Keep going straight. 
You will pass a parking deck on your left side with a black sign.
Continue straight.
You will start to notice lots of parked cars on either side of the road.  
After these parked cars, you will reach an intersection. 
Walk into the middle of the intersection and look for a trashcan on the sidewalk on the left side of the road. There is an orange sign above the trashcan. Touchdown is on this orange sign.  Turn to face to go with the traffic. You can see a round building ahead. Move  towards this building and stop just before the corner of the intersection. Touchdown is sitting on top of the left arrow above the stop sign. Hello there!

1. Begin by turning to the right until you're facing down a street with a pale building with a green awning around it to your right. To your left, there should be some construction materials.

2. Begin moving forward. Pass through the first intersection that you come across (a three-way intersection). When you reach the next intersection (a four-way), take a right.

3. When you orient yourself to begin heading down this road, there should be a brick building to your left with green awnings, and to your right, there should be a blue awning visible on the street that you just left.

4. Begin moving until you're almost at the intersection. Stop when there's a white van parked beneath a store with a yellow sign to your immediate right. Immediately above this sign, there's air conditioning unit in the window that's directly between two balconies. Touchdown is in the very center of this AC unit.

Good luck! :) On your left should be a orange fence with a black fence behind it. On your right should be some brick buildings of various colors one is white one is red with white stripes and as a gray window. When you're in position head straight. Go to the second intersection and make a left. If you've done this correctly here now on the small alley with construction on the right side you'll see lots of wood and a barrier that is white with orange stripes. When you come to a place where you can turn right or go straight continue straight. You should now be passing lots of brick apartment buildings on your right and on your left should be a black fence and lots of trees. You do not want to reach the intersection. You will see on your right before you would even get to the intersection large brick buildings one home has a black double door then a green double door at the next followed by another home with the black double door. Touchdown is sitting at the bottom of the stairs of the home of the green double door. Going with the flow of traffic, go to the stoplight and turn right. At the next stoplight, turn right. Go down to the next intersection.  There will be a blue mailbox on the corner to your left.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the mailbox.  You start nearly in the intersection you immediately need to turn right at. When you go down that street, turn right at the next intersection. There will be a building with a red stripe painted in sections on your right when you turn. Follow the traffic flow down this road a ways, past two light purple striped canopies on the left. You will be in the intersection to find Touchdown on top of the left yellow and red striped umbrella just to the front/left. Align yourself so the blue loading docks with the yellow nubs are on your left. Head up to the intersection to make a right, and then make another right.

Head all the way past the loading docks down this street, to make another right.

Head shortly down this street until you see a couple mechanic bays that are super busy on your right. On your left of the left loading bay, is a black dumpster. Touchdown is in the middle top of the dumpster. You are on a one way road, go with the flow of traffic away from the nearby intersection. You will go to the next intersection and stop right in the middle of it. Ahead to the right is a building with a red horizontal stripe at the top and on the left is a building with a wide black horizontal stripe. Turn to the corner to the right with building with red stripe and you will see three silver trashcans, on with a green top, one with a black top and one with a blue top. Touchdown will be in the center opening of the one with the green top.  Orient yourself so that you'll be going down the narrow one lane street with the flow of traffic.  You'll have a small gated parking area to your right.  Go straight to the first intersection and turn right.  You'll have a flower stand to your left.  Go to the next intersection and turn right again. The business on your left will have a mint green door.  Go to the next intersection and turn right again. Touchdown will be sitting at the base of the third tree on your left in the median. Follow the same direction as traffic and go straight through the intersection. Go right at the next intersection. There will be a single tall thin building standing alone as you look way down to the end of the street. Go towards it. Coming to an intersection with a bright purple/blue sign ahead on the left, stop just before entering the center of the intersection. Turning to look to your right, see a pink sign underneath a purple/blue one. Touchdown is sitting right smack in the middle of that pink sign.  Turn around until you are facing the same direction as the van next to you. Go forward to the end of the block. You should see a building with a clock on it across the intersection, on the right. Now turn right, and walk to the end of the block. Across the street there should be an American flag on the left, and a hot dog cart on the right. Turn right now, and go forward until you are next to the third tree on the left, along with a parking garage, and construction on your right.  Touchdown is on the stop sign behind you. turn so you are facing the same direction of the cars. The playground will be on your left side. Go straight. You will see a bridge up ahead. When you reach the intersection turn right. Once you are turned there is a fenced parking lot on the right side. Go straight until the next intersection. Turn right again. There will be an overpass to the left of you. Go straight. When you are almost to the next intersection that is a 3 way intersection stop. On the left side under the overpass is a purple support column. Touchdown is on the ground in the center of that purple column. Face the massive intersection.  Enter the intersection and turn right, going up the street with the traffic.  Continue straight through the first intersection you reach.  Enter the next intersection and turn right.  After you make the turn, look above the road for a metal, dark green structure that is coming out over the road.  There are two black squares hanging from each one.  The touchdown is the square that is closest to the pole that is in the middle of the street.  Stand so that you'll be exiting the intersection along with the flow of traffic--on your right corner will be the store with black awnings and a light green sign right below it. On your left corner will be an empty building, with green scaffolding starting soon after it. Move straight until you reach an intersection, and turn left.

Continue to the next intersection, and turn left again. Continue again to the next intersection, and turn left again. Soon you will have construction on your right. Directly across, on your left, is a green mailbox. Touchdown is on top. Stand so you are facing the parking garage exit nearest you. Exit and turn right. Continue until you reach an intersection, and turn right. Continue to the next intersection and turn right again. 

Just past the intersection, on your right above is a light blue vertical sign with white letters. Touchdown is on the lowest white letter. Get turned around so the fenced in sports and park area is to the left. Go straight until you reach an intersection then take a right. After you make the turn you will see some graffiti on the building on the right side and some pallets ahead. Go straight down this road until you reach another intersection. Make a right turn. Go straight until you come to another intersection that is a 3 way. If you look to the right you will see a large mostly red circle in a store window. Touchdown is on the ground in the middle in front of that circle. Face in the direction that puts the construction on the left. Continue up the street and take a left at the first intersection you come to. After turning on the right side you will have a store with large windows and black square boxes with bushes in them. At the next intersection enter it, there is a green fenced corner on the right. The Touchdown is on the top of the metal post on the corner.  Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic, and head to the nearest intersection, and continue through it.  At the next intersection you need to turn left, but its tricky.  Look for the green and orange mail boxes on the left side of the road.  That is the road you need to be on. Stop just before the next intersection.  Look to your right.  There is a fire hydrant with a white/silver top.  The bear is on top. Turn so you see yellow pieces on the road just ahead of you. Go straight until the first intersection. Make a left turn. As you approach the next intersection on the right you'll see where the sidewalk is closed and they a walkway fenced off into the street with orange netting. Go into the intersection and make another left turn. There are trees ahead on the right. Go past those.  You'll see a small tree on the left. Go past it. Stop when you get to the beginning of a walk with a lot of messy paint on it to the left of you. There is a brown double door just before that fence. Touchdown is on the ground in the middle of that doorway. Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Head to the nearest intersection.  Take your first left, then left, then left again.  There us a building with a circle window on your right side.  Pass that building, but then stop and look back at it.  There is a silver box/keypad at that door (Below circle window) bear is on it. You're going to want to position yourself so in front of you, there is a huge sign on the building in red letters. On the right is a bank. Make your way down that street. You need to go to the intersection and then take a left. You should see a yellow car on your ride. Go to the next intersection and take a left. There should be a red scooter on your left. Continue forward until you see the white mail truck and a bunch of garbage on your left. Look on the building. There is a camera. That is your touchdown.  Align yourself with the flow of traffic, and head to the intersection to make a left. Make another left at the next intersection. About halfway down this road, you'll see some scaffolding start, with a ladder on it. Touchdown is on the right pylon of the base of the ladder. Go to the corner that you are closest to and turn left. Go to the next traffic light and turn left again.Follow this street to the next traffic light and again turn left. At the next light turn right but do not move As soon as you turn you will see a red fire hydrant at the corner of the building and Touchdown is sitting at the base of the fire hydrant Face so the brick building is on your right and the parking lot on your left.  Go to the intersection and turn right; you'll see some bridges ahead of you.  At the first intersection, just before the bridges, turn right.  You'll be heading down a narrow road next to the off ramp of a highway.  Continue to the second intersection and turn right.  After the turn, the first building on your left should have a couple of tables with no chairs outside.  Move forwards and stop just before the first intersection.  You'll see a bunch of large rocks and planters.  If you look down the road to the right there is an orange construction cone sitting by the curb.  Touchdown is at the base of that cone. Orient yourself so that you're going with traffic and the bright orange awning is to your left.  Proceed to the first intersection and turn right.  There will be some scaffolding off to your left.  Proceed to the next intersection and turn right again.   There will be a building with off-white pillars on your left.   Go to the next intersection and turn right again.  It will seem you are going against traffic here. Watch for a red awning on your left.  Stop immediately after you pass it.   Turn 45 degrees to your left.  There is a gray parking meter box/pole with a blue stripe on top.  Its on the sidewalk in front of the brown storefront to the right of the red awning.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this box.   Orient yourself with traffic and turn right at the light. Go through the next two lights before turning right at the third. Barely try to exit the intersection. There is a digital terminal on the right, and Touchdown is on the orange symbol it is displaying. Align yourself so the red ladder and traffic cones are on your right, and head up to the intersection to make a left. Head straight through two intersections, and stop when you reach the man on a bike symbol on the road, in the middle of the poles sticking out of the middle of the road. Touchdown is on the head of the symbol on the road. You're basically standing in an intersection when you begin.  Move around a bit until you actually get yourself to the point where you can choose which of the four directions you want to take.  Note that one street is wider with more lanes than the other.  You're going to walk on this wider street, not the narrower street.  Turn yourself so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic and you have construction scaffolding ahead of you on your left.  Go one short block to an intersection and turn left.  
You'll now have construction barriers on your left and windows with arches and black trim on your right.  Go to the end of this block and turn left again.  
Now you'll have a building with rounded black awnings on your left.  Go to the end of this short block, and stop when you're right in the middle of the intersection.  Ahead of you on your right is an American flag over the sidewalk.  The bear is on the tip of this flagpole. Go straight with the scaffolding and yard sale to the left. Go past the empty lot to your left. There is scaffolding to your left. There is a fire hydrant inside the scaffolding. Touchdown is sitting on it. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, and head up to the intersection to make a left.There should now be scaffolding with a black sign on your right. Head up to the next intersection to take a few steps to the left.

Stop just before the orange mesh enclosure with the port-a-potty in the enclosure. touchdown is on the white sign facing the road next to the light. Stand so you are moving with traffic. Move straight to the intersection and turn left. Move to the next intersection and turn left again. Just past it, there is a food truck on your left. Touchdown is on the center of the food truck. Orient yourself to follow the flow of traffic and go straight. You will go through three intersections and the turn right at the fourth. You will see a blue garage door on the left with a white sign. The touchdown is on the white sign.  Align yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic.  You will go straight the entire time.  Proceed forward going through the first traffic lights.  When you get to the second traffic lights, stop and look to your right.  There's a dark green trash bin.  Touchdown is hiding on top of the fire hydrant next to the trash bin. From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  There should be a playground on your left, and a green canopy on your right.  

Walk forward, and stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to.  Take a right at this intersection.  As you start walking down this road, you should see a black and red fire hydrant on your right.  

Walk forward, pass a storefront with two black signs with yellow letters. and then stop in the middle of the intersection.

Take a right at this intersection, and walk down a narrow road.  There will be a green awning on your left, and a small shop with green lettering on an otherwise blank white background to your right.  You should then pass a small parking lot on the right with an open, yellow gate.  

Keep walking straight, and pass a section of scaffolding with a green canopy.  From there, just continue walking until you have passed a bright yellow sign with two black stick figures.  

Once you have passed the yellow sign, walk forward until you can clearly see a motorcycle parked on the right side of the street.  Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the black seat on this motorcycle.  Put the motorcycle behind you and move forward. Take the first right that you come to, and another right at the next opportunity. Touchdown is sitting on a green canopy nearby. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and the bike racks on your right.  Go straight through the next intersection.
Continue forward and you will pass bright red doors on the left and some scaffolding on your right.
Turn left at the next intersection where there is scaffolding ahead on the right.
Head down a short distance and turn left at the next intersection and you will have a red brick building on your left and blue awnings to the right.
When you are a couple of buildings past the blue awnings, you will see a building with red and grey bricks.  Hanging off this building is a white banner with some blue text.  Touchdown is hiding at the bottom of this banner. Orient yourself so you head in the same direction as traffic.  Go to the end of the block and turn left. Go down one block and turn left again down the one way road.  Follow traffic and go straight through the first intersection and stop at the second intersection.    on your left you should see some scaffolding and a black trash can under the scaffolding.  Touch down bear is on top of the black trash can. Go down the one way road with traffic. When you reach the intersection, turn left. If you are heading the correct direction you will see two different type of green flags hanging on the buildings one on each side of the road. At the next intersection turn left again. The stores on each side of the road after you turn will have green on them. Go down this block until you reach another intersection. Turn left again. Once you have turned there will be a blue mailbox to the right on the corner. Move forward a little bit. On the left side you will see a dark grey rounded awning underneath a green cover. Touchdown is in the empty planter that is right before that black awning. Follow traffic to the light and go right, and go right again at the next light.  You'll see a long entry canopy on the white building far ahead, but just rotate right as soon as you pass the crosswalk.  Past the corner of the white building, before the blue door, is a plant in a planter. Touchdown is sitting in the small white bowl next to it. Turn and follow with the traffic.Go straight and it looks like there are two lefts take the top left arrow. Then go straight. Go straight thru intersection.  Turn right at intersection. You will see alot of yellow trees.  Turn right at intersection. Yellow trees on the left. There is a red and white sign past the first yellow tree. Touchdown is in the middle of the sign.  Go in the same direction as traffic.  There will be a major highway on your left.   Move forward until you reach the stoplight.  Turn right at the light.  There will be basketball courts on your left, and the road will be separated by a median with grass and bushes.   Go straight through the stoplight.  Watch for a yellow and black pedestrian sign on your right.  Pass this sign; look for blue benches right after it on your right.  Stop right after you pass these benches.  Turn 90 degrees to your right to face them.  Touchdown is sitting on the bench that runs parallel to the road, on the right end of the bench.   Orient yourself with the blue and red corner to the left. Go straight and take a right at the second intersection. Go straight until you see a blue framed facade to the left. Touchdown is sitting on top of the door frame. Follow the flow of traffic and stay to the right of the split in the road.At the first traffic light turn right.At the next corner you will see a yellow sign with a stick figure on it and Touchdown is sitting in place of that stickfigure put the close by red brick building with a blue storefront on your right. Go straight through the first and second intersections you come to. At the 3rd intersection take a right. Go all the way to the end of the one way street and go right at the 3 way intersection look to your right. When you get to the subway entrance, touchdown is on top of the light post closest to the start of the stairway down.  If you are in the correct position you will notice many umbrella tables to your right with blue umbrellas. To your left is a black fence with lots of trees inside of it. Once you are in the proper position head straight.
You will have an opportunity to veer left please take that opportunity.
If you want the correct way as soon as you veer left you are heading down the hill and there is a wooden box to your right. To your left is the black fence with the trees. There will also be three trash cans one with the blue-ribbon one with a green ribbon and one that is just black. These are on your left as well.
Go to the next intersection and make a left.
Continue straight until you reach the next intersection then make yet another left.
If you are on the correct road to your left is the wrought iron fence that is black and there are trees within it like the ones we saw earlier. To your right is a large building with large glass windows with blue signs with white lettering in the windows. Continue straight through the next intersection and travel a short distance.
Right past the intersection you will see three more trash cans. Touchdown is directly on top of the one with the green lid. Face so you are going with the flow of traffic.  Move forward going straight through the first intersection. There will be two roads right after another that go to the right. Pass the first and make the first left hand turn when you can.  You will enter a street that has a chainlink fence on the left, making the road very narrow.  Continue down this street and past the end of the chainlink fence construction On the left you pass an orange extended awning. Stop when you pass it, rotate and face the orange awning. The Touchdown is in the center front of the awning.  From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing a large intersection with four crosswalks.  Walk straight through this intersection, so that you see a shoe store with black and white brand logos on your right.  Walk forward, and then stop in the middle of the next intersection you come to.  Turn to your right, so that you see the back of a yellow taxi, and you can see a blue and yellow umbrella on the right-hand sidewalk.  Use the arrows to step forward.  The taxi and the umbrella will disappear, but if you see the back of a big white truck, you are on the right track.  Keep walking, following that white truck.  It will be a long straight walk, but you will eventually see a hotel with gold letters on a green sign.  You are almost there, so just keep walking.  You will soon see a bicycle and then some scaffolding on the sidewalk.  Go forward another couple of steps, and you will soon see Touchdown the Bear on top of a gray and white bus, on the right side of the street.  Head in the direction of traffic.  There will be a red banner hanging outside a building to your right.  Go forward to the first intersection and turn right.  You'll find yourself on a wider road.  Again, go to the first intersection and turn right.  About half way down the block on your left you'll see a long brick building with green trim arches and orange flowers in large green planters out front.  About half way down this building there is an arrow spray-painted in white on the sidewalk right next to the curb.  Touchdown is at the tip of the arrow. Follow traffic to the light and go right.  Go through the next light, and stop when you're standing on the crosswalk at the one after it.

Rotate left, to face the corner store with long vertical windows.  Inside the last window is a mannequin.  Touchdown is affixed dead center of the display dummy's orange shirt. Turn so the building with all of the stairs is behind you, and walk ahead down a narrow one way street passing by parked blue bikes on your right.  Go left at the next intersection.  Up ahead, see a construction zone with lots of smoke. Go straight through this intersection.  See a green building with black letters and a red checkmark ahead on the corner to your left.  Go left at this intersection and turn to face the check mark. Touchdown is sitting on the top of the longest red line. Turn so that the tall gray building with the huge round top windows are ahead of you on the right. Enter that intersection and go left. You will be going up a small hill, with a row of short cement posts lining the road on your left. Stop when you just pass the first lamppost on your left. Turning to look at the ground under the lamppost, see where one of the short cement pillars is missing. There is a black circle. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of that circle.  Turn and follow the flow of traffic.  Take your first right (Ignore the first turn with only 3 options).  Pass the park on your left, continue forward.  Take second right (Same intersection), then the next right.  Once you exit the intersection (Pass the crosswalk) look straight ahead.  There is a dog wearing a helmet.  The bear is on its nose.   If you're looking straight ahead you should see a building that looks like it's made of glass mirrors. To your right should be a barrier with a bunch of banners hanging over the fence that is on top of it. To your left should be a building that has white brick and then goes into blue brick with a blue door. If you are facing this position head straight towards the mirror building.
You will reach an intersection before you would get to that billing and at this intersection you will make a right turn. It is the first intersection.
You will be remaining straight for quite some time. To make sure you're headed the right direction should pass a billboard with that is electronic and can change what is being displayed. This billboard will be on your right side that is very long and appears to made of nothing but glass. Also in front of this building you will see a food stand with yellow and blue umbrellas. You will continue straight until you find yourself in front of the same building however you are now at an intersection on your left and on your right you will see several staircases touchdown will be sitting in front of the first set of stairs on your right. go with traffic down the one way street, go to the 1st intersection and take a left, go to the next intersection and take left, there will be a red brick building on your right with posters , you will pass a building with a mural of art supplies on the left followed by a cemetery, just before the cemetery ends, there is a fire hydrant, the bear is on top Turn so you are facing the same direction as traffic, there is a park to your left. 
Start travelling forward going straight through the intersection just up ahead.
You will pass some construction barriers on your right while approaching the next intersection.
Go straight though the next intersection as well.
At the third intersection Turn Left.
After turning you will notice a orange ladder leading up to green scaffolding up ahead, travel forward and pass that.
As you approach the intersection, notice the blue dumpster to your right, after you pass the dumpster look to your right and see the store on the corner with two windows.
Outside of that store is a black fire hydrant flanked by two silver colored posts .Touchdown is sitting on top on that fire hydrant


 Stand so that you are moving with the flow of traffic. Go straight to the next intersection and turn left. Go to the next intersection and turn left. Move forward, passing the long row of blue bikes. The you'll pass a tree with Christmas lights on your left. Just past it is a yellow store sign/awning. Touchdown is on the center of the curved yellow part of the awning. Turn so you are facing in the same directing as traffic, metal fence, to your left.
Travel straight ahead to the traffic light, there will be a store with large glass windows and a red awning on the right. 
Turn right here
you will pass some orange awnings to the left at the next intersection, keep going straight. At the second traffic light there will be green scaffold ahead to your right and a building with white raised lettering to the left.
Turn left here
After turning notice the street light post with a flower basket hanging on it .
Move just past that  light post , turn around slightly and find Touchdown sitting on  the flower basket Position yourself so the row of rental bikes is on your left. Turn left at the intersection just ahead. There is now a light colored building with large pillars on your left. 

Go straight through the next two intersections, and turn left at the third one. There's scaffolding on both sides and you're moving with traffic on a one way street. Pass the trash bin with the blue tarp on your right, and look for the three rows of small gray trash bins on your left that are roped off with traffic cones. Just before this is a black fire hydrant with a white top. Touchdown is sitting on top of that hydrant.  Orient yourself so the store with the large red awning is on your left.  Walk down this road.  Walk straight through two intersections until you reach the third.  This will be a very large multi lane road with a division in the middle.  Enter the intersection and look across the street.  There is a sign in the ground in front of the tall brick building on your right.  The sign is blue and orange.  Touchdown is in the middle of this sign. To in the same direction as traffic and turn left at the upcoming intersection. At the next one, go straight through to turn left into the far lanes of the street. See a playground to your right, and stop in front of the first bench behind the iron gate. Touchdown is sitting on top of the green fire hydrant with a silver cap in front of you. Go in the same direction as traffic.  The black fence will be on your left.  Move forward to the first intersection (it's a T-intersection).  Turn to your right.  You will see a store with a red awning set back from the street on your left.  Move forward to the first intersection you encounter on this street.  Turn right (the arrows here overlap strangely, so you may have to play around with it).  The street you are going down has a grocery store with a fruit mural on the left side.   Head down this street until there is a building with a brick first story painted red on the right and lots of red painted metal on the left building.   Turn to the left. The entrance to the building has two stairs and a red metalwork entryway.  Touchdown is sitting at the base of these two steps, in the middle.   Turn so the median with bells is to your right and you're walking against traffic.  Go through the intersection you're at, and turn left at the next light.  Walk to the end of the block, and go left again.  Go the end of the next block, STOP before entering the intersection, with the playground with the green and red fencing directly on your left.  
Across the street to your right should be dragons.  On the left hand corner across the street should be an olive colored mailbox with a lot of graffiti. 

Touchdown is sitting on top and centered on the mailbox.   Go with traffic
Quickly turn left at the first intersection, you will see a white florists van on the right.
Pass one intersection 
Turn left at the next intersection.
Traffic will be coming at you.
On the left you will see an alley with an open gate between two buildings.
There is a NYPD Suv parked in front of the second building with the green double doors and two lions statues on the building.
Touchdown is on the hood of the Suv, right on the blue logo.
 Head in the direction of traffic. Tun right at the intersection. Go straight and then turn right at the intersection. Pass the dumpster on your right. To your right you will see a building that has a light on either side of the entrance. One is on and the other is off. Touchdown is on the light that is ON. Turn so the brown building with gold accents is on your right. Go down the street to the intersection. Turn right. Head down the street to the next intersection. Take a left. Head down this street and stop before you get to the delivery truck parked on the right side of the street and a white van parked on the left. Touchdown is sitting on top of the pole for parking on the left side of the road behind the white van. Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Go forward until you reach an intersection, and turn left. Move to the next intersection and turn left again. Soon on your left is a diamond yellow sign with a curved arrow. Touchdown is on the sign. Turn so that you will see a light gray/white building with horizontal dark gray lines just ahead on your right. Go straight through the upcoming intersection. At the next intersection, go right. There will be a green trimmed building on your left as you turn into the street. After turning, notice an area on your left that cars can drive into, with colorful mosaic glass windows just beyond that. Stop in front of the 3rd mosaic painted window and turn to look at it. Touchdown is sitting directly on the ground right in the center of that window, with his back up against it.  Follow the flow of traffic and continue forward.  Face the buildings on your right while you travel down the road.  When you see a metal green elevated walkway, you are close.  Continue to the black street light at the end of the green walkway. The bear is at the bottom of this street lamp.    Turn so you're facing the construction lot on the corner ahead.  Move into the intersection and immediately turn right so the construction is on your left.
Head straight down this road and turn right at the first intersection where there is graffiti on the left corner before you turn.  Up ahead you should see scaffolding and a building covered in netting on the left.
Turn right at the next intersection.  There will now be a business on your right with black pillars.  Head down to the next intersection and turn right one last time.
The business on the left is all white, while there is scaffolding on the right.
Just before you get to the intersection where you started, there is an open cellar door to your left.  Touchdown is on the yellow part of this cellar door. Turn and face the same direction of traffic and see the traffic light ahead.
Pass straight through that traffic light.

Second traffic light see a couple burgundy awning signs outside of a buisness on the corner.
Turn right onto the one way street here.

You will travel one block to the next intersection and Turn right
After you turn there will be a red brick building on the left and a store with a blue awning to your right, behind scaffolds.

Travel to the next intersection just ahead and turn right and Stop.

There is a blue mailbox in front of you and slightly to the right.
Our favorite bear is sitting on top of the mailbox.

 Position yourself so the overpass is on your left hand side.
Go forward, and turn right at the very first street you come across.
Travel down the street, you will pass some yellow poles on your left and an orange cone on your right.
Take a right when you get to the main street at the end.
Pass through the first intersection you encounter.
You should see a bus stop on the right hand side shortly after crossing the intersection.
Further past the bus stop you will see a black and silver fire hydrant on the right side of the road.
The touchdown is the object directly next to it.

 Follow the flow of traffic with the green storefront to your right, and make a right at the first traffic light. Go down the block and make another right, with the red awning on your left. Follow the traffic down the block and stop at the traffic light, with the garden on your right. There is a yellow pedestrian crosswalk sign on your right, Touchdown is above it. Hello there!

1. Turn to the right until you're facing the intersection. Step into it, and take a right. There should be scaffolding with a green top to your right and a large lit up canopy/sign a little further ahead.

2. Take another right at the next intersection. On your right, there should be a black storefront with its windows covered and a large circular structure above the entrance.

3. Follow this road for a while, and take another right at the next intersection. There should be several red awnings to your left. Your destination is near the next intersection.

4. Stop right before the next intersection. You should be standing in front of the crosswalk. Turn to the right until you see a black fire hydrant with a red top that's between two black bollards. Touchdown is sitting on top of the hydrant.

Good luck! :) Turn towards the intersection, go through it, then take the next left.  On the left is a orange and while barricade.  Stop in front of it.  There is a orange/white pole on the ground in front of it.  There is a white loop on the left side of it.  The bear it there. Position yourself so the bridge is just ahead of you and an orange awning is on your right. Turn left at the traffic light just before the bridge. After you turn, there will be a green wall on your left and a gray dumpster in the street just ahead. 

Turn left again at the next light. Now, there should be a bright yellow awning with red writing on your left. Go past the planters and fenced in area on your right, and begin to look for a light brown brick building with a light gray awning with red writing and symbols along with a narrow red sign hanging beneath. There is a U-shaped bike stand on the edge of the sidewalk in front of that store. Touchdown is sitting on the ground right between the two poles of that bike stand.  Going with the flow of traffic with potted trees to your right, go straight through this intersection. When you get to the intersection with scaffolding on your right, go straight through that intersection as well. The next intersection will have a black building with gold lettering on the windows, turn left here and stop.  Touchdown will be on top of the traffic cone next to the silver car. Move forward along with traffic so that he building construction is on your right.  Turn left at the intersection and go down the one way street.  Go straight through the first set of lights, and then turn left at the second set of lights.  You should have a park like setting on the right and the landscaping of apartment buildings on the left.  After the landscaping on the left side, there will be two red vertical signs on the wall of the store on the left.  Stop at the doorway to this store.  In front of the wall, coming out of the sidewalk are a green water pipe and a red water pipe.  Touchdown bear is on top of the green water pipe.  Turn around so you are facing away from the intersection. Head straight until the cobblestone street ends and asphalt begins. Turn right. Continue straight, with the fenced in parking lot on your right, until the next intersection. There is building which is partially glass, turn right. Orient yourself so the construction is on your left. Move forward till the next intersection and then turn right before reaching the building which has red, blue, and then red letters in the sign. Move until the trees on your left end. You should be at a half-intersection which has a green sign. Turn right. A truck is on your right, and orange construction fencing is on your left. Touchdown is on top of the concrete block on the left and above the red lettering.  Turn so the triangle sign is on your right. Merge into traffic taking a sharp left turn. Go a short distance down this street until you see a white van with blue accents parked on the left side of the street. There are two cones beside it.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the cone to the left.  Follow the flow of traffic and go to the nest intersection.  Stay straight (Controls a weird) until you read a large intersection.  At the corner there is a white building with arches on the building.  Keeping this building on your right continue down the road until the intersection.  One step before the intersection turn around and look at the parked motorcycle.  The bear is on the seat. Turn so you can go just a few feet to the road beside you, then orient yourself so the blue awnings are on your right.  Follow traffic down this one-way road passing two intersections.  Keep going until you reach the third.  Stop before you enter this intersection and look to your left.  There are two windows surrounded by a green border.  In front of the bigger window is a white sign with red writing and a black frame on the ground.  Touchdown is sitting on top of that white sign. Turn and go in the same direction as traffic. Pass a bold bldg with dancing silhouettes on the walls on your right. At the next intersection, go straight across the first right hand turn, and go to the other side of the street to go right instead.  Once turned, you should be in the middle of a multi lane one way street, with  a poster of a glass of wine ahead of you. Go to the next intersection with the green sign with a duck, and go right. Start down the street, and then stop in the intersection right on the the sidewalk curb. Touchdown is sitting on top of the orange and white vender tent ahead to the left.  Orient yourself so that you are going with the flow of traffic and there is a green awning to your right. Go forward and you will come to an intersection with a traffic light. Go through the light and keep going straight. You will see some orange and white road barriers on your right. Look for the store front with the brown awning, Touchdown is sitting on the awning above the letter A.  position yourself so you are following the traffic direction. Go to the 1st intersection. Turn right. Once you made the turn, the orange sign with black letters should be on your left. Good. Go straight now. When you reach the intersection look to your left. There is a store with black banner and a logo on the banner above the windows. Then go into the intersection for a few more steps until the time/sunlight changed, now look at the same store. You will see a blue mailbox in front of that store. The touchdown is on top of that mailbox.  Turn so that you are facing such that you can see on your left building with a white first story with a blue and white sign on it that has an arrow pointing up.  Move forward into the intersection.  Then turn left. You should see some blue neon signs on your right and some orange construction mesh on your left.  Proceed forward to the first intersection.  Upon reaching the intersection, turn to your right.  You will see red awnings and a gigantic American flag.  One of the awnings has a pair of glasses printed on it.  Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the left lens of those eyeglasses.

 Turn so you're walking with the flow of traffic. Continue forward and turn left at the next intersection. Continue until the next intersection, then turn left again. Halfway down the street will be a store with a green and blue sign in the window. Touchdown is on top of the green sign in the store window. Going with the flow of traffic, go into the intersection and take a right.  You'll have a business with red signs on your right, continue straight.  At the next intersection, turn right.  Again at the next intersection, take a right.  There's a park on your left and stores with mannequins in the windows on your right.  Go to the next intersection, stop mid intersection and look ahead to your right at the business with blue letters and a red arch over it. Look up at the building, there's a dome shaped object coming out the building, that's where Touchdown is. Go into the nearest intersection Look for the flower shop on the corner and go in this direction. Stop before crossing the flower shop, and turn with traffic coming at you at the intersection. A hot dog cart will be on the left side of the street. Go straight at the next intersection. Traffic still coming at you. Go straight again at the next intersection. Keep going with traffic coming at you down the one way. Turn right at the intersection, now your going with traffic. Stop just before entering the next intersection and look back at the orange traffic cone next to the white truck. Touchdown is sitting on top of the traffic cone. Face the flow of traffic, there will be a delivery truck on the left and bus on the right.  At the intersection, turn right.  You'll see a food cart on the right, go to the next intersection.  Turn right here as well.  You should see red awnings on your right.

Go until you're next to the far orange cone of the two cones.

Touchdown is at the tip of the far cone. Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. There should now be a line of yellow vehicles to your right.

2. Begin moving forward. While moving down this street, you'll come across a three-way intersection (it leads into a parking garage), but just pass through it. You'll then find a divided street with two intersections. Pass through the first one, but take a right at the second.

3. When you reorient yourself, there should be a large pink sign on a building to your right. Stone barriers should be on the side of the street to your left. Your destination is close.

4. When you're almost at the next intersection, look to the right. There should be a store closest to the next street with a blue and violet sign above it and a large wristwatch in the window. When you see that you're directly in line with the division between this store and the store to the right of it (from your perspective), stop. Touchdown is in the very center of the face of the aforementioned wristwatch.

Good luck! :) Hello there!

1. Make sure that you're going with the flow of traffic. There should be a construction area and scaffolding to your left and a blue storefront to your right. Move forward into the intersection right in front of you, and take a right.

2. The blue storefront should still be on your right after reorienting yourself. Go straight, passing through the first intersection that you meet. Take another right at the second one.

3. After reorienting yourself, there should be scaffolding on your right and a little restaurant with red awnings on your left. Follow this road for a while, and take a right again at the next intersection. Your destination is very close.

4. When you reorient yourself, there should be cardboard boxes and clear garbage bags to your right. On the same side of the road, a little further past that, you should see a signpost. Past that, you should see a brown fire hydrant between two gray bollards. Go forward until you're standing next to the hydrant. Touchdown is sitting on top of it.

Good luck! :) Orient yourself so the parking deck is on your left and the mural on your right. Proceed to the first intersection and take a left. Take another left at the next intersection. About three-quarters of the way down the block, Touchdown is on the largest heart on the left of the pink and yellow painted mural on the brick wall.  Moving with traffic, go forward, passing the green signs overhead, passing under the green arrows, passing through the tunnel like structure and through to the other side. Watch to your right as you go down this road a short bit more. There is white graffiti on the first two posts on the right. Go past those. Then there are two more instances of white graffiti on the side of the bridging just past those. Touchdown is centered on the second graffiti on the side. Orient yourself so the bank is on your right and pharmacy on your left. Go straight through the intersection and stop as you red a shop with a green background and gold writing on your left. In front of the shop is a small red car. The touchdown is the center of the car's front tire.  Follow traffic to the end of the block and go left.  Go into the middle of the intersection the street dead-ends into, so you're directly between the concrete islands with bell-shaped bollards.  Straight ahead of you is a mostly white building, with red brick around the doors. Rotate slightly right, and in front of the overhead door is a hydrant with two silver bollards on either side. Touchdown is atop the hydrant. Turn so that you are facing the direction of traffic. Walk straight until you reach an intersection.

At the intersection, you should see a dark brick building with a black awning with white lettering to your left. Turn right here. 

As you get to the next intersection, a store with a light green awning should be to the right. Turn right here. 

Walk a few steps down the road and you should see a beige building with a brown cross on the right, and a brown building with a green awning across the street to the left. Touchdown is placed on the green awning at the front, on the part facing the street.  Before you move get situated so you are facing away from the intersection that is right there. You should have orange and white construction barriers ahead of you and to the right and a green construction wall on your left. When you get to the first intersection keep going straight. The second intersection is a 3 way and you'll have a park right in front of you. Get turned to the right so that you are heading the same direction as traffic and the park is on your left side. You will come to a very small 3 way intersection that has no stoplight. Keep going straight. When you get to a larger intersection with a stoplight, make a right. You will have a church to the right of you with red doors that are arched in a gothic way. Go straight. Stop right before you get into the next intersection. Look to the right and you'll see some boxes and some crates stacked upside down. There is a blue mailbox there with a trash bag next to it. Touchdown is on top of the mail box.  Turn so the orange construction cones are to your left. Go to the intersection and turn right. Follow traffic flow through the first corner, also through the next where the road only turns left. Just keep going straight here where there is a large fenced in yard on the right. Keep going past that chain link fence on the right. As you get to the next intersection, there is a yellow and red box on the corner in front of you to the right. Touchdown is on top of the yellow box that is next to the light pole. Look for the cafe with dinning table and chairs outside. Keep the cafe on your right side and go down the one way.
Turn right at the first intersection. A green mail box will be on the left corner.
Turn right down the side street.
Turn right again at the next intersection.
Stop just before the yellow Speed bump sign on the left.
Look at the red brick building to your left. There are two white window planters on the left side of the door. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the flowers in the planter that is closest to the door.

 Turn so your moving with the flow of traffic. Move into the intersection and take a right. Move down the block and take another right at the first intersection you come to. Go down to the next intersection and take another right. Watch the right side and stop in front of the red brick building with a red fire escape. The ground floor of the building is grey, but it is red brick above that. Touchdown is on top of the first rung of the ladder of the fire escape.  Go with traffic through the light and right as soon as you can, past a small guardhouse on your right, and then green walls and finally an all glass building on your right.

Stop on the crosswalk, before you reach the first of the four huge stone pillars on the left with their flock of mini green bollards. Rotate right. You should be facing the middle of the doors to the glass building.  

Look for a single bright red dot slightly to the right and above the middle door. Touchdown is adhered to it. Now position yourself so the truck is on your left and you are going against the traffic. Go to the intersection. You should see a restaurant with black awning on your left and scaffolding on your right. Turn right at this intersection. Now orange/white construction blocks are on your right. Go forward and stop at the second intersection. Turn right here since you can see there are few yellow signs block you from turning left. Go straight until you see a store on the left with black sign and white letters. On the left side there is a logo/symbol on that sign, touchdown is on that round shape in the middle of it.  Follow traffic to the light and go left. Go straight through the next light, and stop shy of the one after it.  Rotate right to face the glass store front with green accents.  

Touchdown is atop and center the blue mailbox on the corner. Turn and go with the flow of traffic down the one way street.  You will quickly come to an intersection.  Turn right.  After you turn, you should see a red lane on the far right side of the street. Go straight through the first intersection you come to. Go straight through the second intersection also.  When you come to the third intersection, turn right. You should see a business with an orange awning on your left.  Go straight until you see a word with four letters painted in the middle of the road.  Touchdown is sitting on the street on the third letter of the word. Go in the same direction as traffic.  There will be orange and white construction barricades on your right.  Move forward to the first stoplight.  Turn right,  There will be an apartment building with long green awnings on your left and you will be going in the same direction as traffic.  Proceed forward to the stoplight.  Turn right.  There will be a dark brown building to your right surrounded by a fancy fence.  Move forward.  You will pass some scaffolding and a port-a-pottie on your left.  After, that, on your right you will see some orange construction cones and a construction fence covered in mesh. Stop right after you pass these.   Turn to your left.  There is an orange pumpkin sitting on the stoop next to a white column.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this pumpkin.   Move with traffic, passing the gray storefront/columns on your right. Move ahead to the first intersection and take a right, passing the brick columns/building on your right. Now move to the next light and turn right again. On your left should be scaffolding. Move past it and then past a small scaffolding area on the right, and continue until the intersection.  Move into the intersection, turn right, and stop. There is a red flag ahead of you on the right. Touchdown is on the red flag. Stand so that you are moving with the flow of traffic. Go straight to the next intersection and turn left. Move to the next intersection and go left again. Go forward, passing the flag on your right. Then you'll see on your right a dark blut flag with white writing. Touchdown is on the bottom center of that flag. Position yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic. At the intersection that's just up ahead, turn right. After you turn, a gray brick building with benches on either side of double doors will be on your left. 

When you get to the next intersection, turn right again. There will be a fenced in space with grass and trees on either side of you on both corners. Take this road all the way down to the next intersection. You'll know you're there when you see a business with a red sign and large windows on the corner to your right. Turn right at this intersection.

When you get to the next intersection, which is very close, stop at the crosswalk before going through it. Look to your right and you'll see a dark green mailbox covered in graffiti. Touchdown is sitting on top of the mailbox. 

 Orient yourself with traffic so the angled parking is on your left. At the end of the block, turn right. Turn right again at the next intersection. There's a maroon awning of a bicycle store on your right at this corner. Take another right at the next intersection. You've made three total rights. There is a red lane on your right and parked cars to the right of the red lane. A couple steps into this block, there is a row of four trash and recycling cans against the gray brick building on the left. Touchdown is on top of the first trash can. Go with traffic. You will see bikes for rent.
Turn left at the first intersection.
Stop right after the Fedex truck on your left.
There is a green mailbox on the left next to a tree and some flowers.
Touchdown is on top of the green mailbox .

 Move with the flow of traffic to the first intersection (just past umbrellas on your left), and turn left. Move ahead to the next intersection and take another left. You should now have food trucks ahead on both sides of you. Pass between them and continue. You will come to a building on your left with tall windows that have tall curtains in them. When you are almost at the end of that building, stop and face right. There is a small red sign on a street pole. Touchdown is on the red sign. Turn so you travel across the intersection and the largest grassy area with a red playground tube is on your right.  Keeping that area on your right, go straight down that road.  You'll pass a playground area on your left, keep going.   Stop when you reach the next playground on your right, you'll stop before you reach the corner of the caged in area near the blue painted park.   There is a short rod iron fence with an opening that leads to the park.   Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the sign that is just to the right of the opening. Turn so that the playground is on your right.  Continue forward as this road turns.  Pass the first left you can take (Intersection) and take the second.  Enter the next intersection, turn left, then stop.  On your left is an orange barrel.  The bear is on top.   Orient yourself so you are going against the flow of traffic with the orange and white construction barriers to your left. Continue forward to the next intersection take a right. There should be a large newspaper headquarters to your right. Continue moving forward to the next intersection and take a right. You should see a large white electronic billboard on your right and a restaurant on the left. Continue forward moving past the movie theaters on the right and left. There will be a diner on the right and a building with a large sculpture of a hand sticking out of it after that. Stop just before you have reached the large hand sculpture. Touchdown is on the nail of the pinky of the hand sculpture. Turn so the red octagon sign is to your left. Walk forward and turn left. You should be facing the same direction as the flow of traffic. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left. There should be two red garage doors in front of you to the left. Walk forward under the bridge and take a left at the first intersection. There should be scaffolding on your right. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left back under the bridge. Walk forward until you see a fire hydrant to your left between two posts. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant. Get turned so that the one white trashbag with blue on it and is next to a green trash bin is to your right. Go a short distance to the intersection and turn left. Go forward and back into the main road again. Now you will pretty much turn around at the first 4 way intersection. It's a little confusing and is like making a u-turn.You will know you are headed the right direction if you see a firetruck parked on the left side of the road. You will come to an intersection and go straight through it then stop immediately after. Look to the right and you will see several black and white trash bags. There is a black fire hydrant with a silver top close to those. Touchdown is on top of that hydrant. Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic, away from that close intersection. Continue until you reach an intersection and turn left. Continue down this street for awhile; you'll pass through one intersection but there aren't any opportunities to turn. When you're close to the next intersection, you'll see an open area to your right and a huge building with windows up ahead. To your left are a group of yellow and blue umbrellas. Touchdown is on top of the closest umbrella. Start by making sure that you have traffic light behind you and a shop with blue and red banner to your right. You should be walking down a narrow street and have construction to your right. Keep walking forward, make sure you pass a gate and benches to your left. Walk straight, pass one traffic light and turn right at the next traffic light.You should have a building with purple and yellow flag to your right. Walk straight and turn right at the nearest intersection. You should have a red building with big black entrance to your right. Walk forward until you reach a building with grey facade with a ramp, Touchdown is sitting at the red hydrant next to the door. Turn so you are heading the same direction as the car. Go to the next intersection and turn left. You will be going the same direction as traffic again. Turn left when you are in the intersection. There will be an orange awning on the right side after you have turned. You won't reach the end of this block but you will go a good distance down. You will pass a set of blue doors on the left. Keep going. When you are next to the playground with courts on the left side come to a stop. You will see a tall black gate. Touchdown is in the middle of those gates on the ground. Head toward the intersection and turn left. At the next intersection, turn left again. Pass the orange and white barriers on the left. Pass the orange and white barrels on the right.  Pass the apartment building with the green awning on the right. When you see the fire hydrant to your left and the yellow curb to your right, move ahead one more time. To your left there is a black pole with some blue stuff on it. Touchdown is covering the letter on that pole. Follow the flow of traffic, with the scaffolding to the right, to the intersection, and go right. At the next intersection, go right again. Follow this one way street until you've completely passed a white brick building with two arched windows with reddish colored wood framing. To your left will be a brown rollup door with mirrors on either side of it. The touch down is dead center of that door, on the sidewalk just in front of it. Orient yourself in the direction of traffic. Take a right at the building with rippled windows. Go straight and take a right onto the angled road. At the following intersection, which takes a right onto a straight road, stop. There is a glastraight doorway to the right. Touchdown is sitting below the handles. Orient yourself so that you see metal and green wood scaffolding on your right Go down this road and then at the intersection, turn right. You should now see an orange diamond shaped sign on your left and a green lightpost on your right. Continue to the next intersection. Take another right. You should now see a green post on your right side and blue and green posters in windows on your left. Go with traffic to the next intersection. Continue just through the intersection until you see a large apple on a building to your left. Touchdown is at the tip of the leaf on the biggest apple. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  A wall of graffiti will be on your right.
Turn left at the next intersection.  An all glass building will be ahead on the right.
Turn left at the next intersection that has construction in the middle of the road where you are headed.
Head past the 3 way intersection that goes to the right.
Head down to just before the barriers start on the left.  The single barrier oriented horizontally on the left has a light on it where Touchdown is hiding. With the red awning to your right, go into the intersection and turn right.  So that you have a striped awning on your left and a red awning on your right. Go down to the next intersection and turn right. You'll see scaffolding to your right.  Go to the next intersection and turn right.  There will be a set of motorcycles parked on your right hand side.  Touchdown will be on the headlight of the last motorcycle  where the white building starts. Orient yourself so you are going the same way as the traffic, and the closest intersection is directly behind you.  Go forward to the next intersection and turn left.  Begin walking straight, and at the first intersection, continue going straight through it.  keep waking down the street, looking on your right side.  There's an open seating area behind a black fence an a bunch of bikes locked up in front of the fence.  Just past that is a green plywood awning held up by scaffolding.  When you reach the end of the scaffolding, stop and look ahead to your right.  There's a street light pole just before all the light up trees that has a banner on it.  There's a red sign below the banner with white letters and a double sided arrow on it.  Touchdown is in the middle of that sign. Go with traffic away from the nearest intersection.  A playground will be on the right to start. Keep straight at the next intersection.  Turn right at the next intersection.  Black iron fencing will be on the right. Look right and pass first fire hydrant right at the corner.  Pass the second fire hydrant and stop next to the first black car just pass a red car. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the front tire hub cap of the black car. Turn so a store window of shoes is in front of you to the left. Go left at the 3 way intersection. You will pass a restaurant with red chairs to your left half way down. At the end of the street, take a right to enter the big intersection. Then go left. Go through the next intersection, with a gray and white building with a red door and pillars on the left. Stop before the crosswalk at the next intersection you come to. Look to your left and you will see Touchdown sitting on top of a blue and yellow umbrella.  Turn and head into oncoming traffic.   Take the first left.  Stop in the intersection.  Look to the right, there is a blue mailbox.  The bear is on top. Go with the flow of traffic and at the second traffic light turn right.Go down this street and you will go under a bridge.Stay to your right and make a right turn before you get to the bridge. On your left side you will see 3 nypd vehicles parked and a white pillar of the bridge with numbers on it and touchdown is sitting on the number on the pillar Position yourself so the intersection is directly behind you. There will be a food truck up ahead on your right and a row of rental bikes beyond that on your left. Move with traffic to the first intersection and turn left. After you turn, there will be long rows of steps on your left and an orange and white construction barrier on your right. 

Go to the next traffic light, and turn left again. This will put a dark gray building with large windows and a very thin yellow sign on your right. Go straight through the first intersection on this street and stop just before the second one. Look to your left and the second-to-last store before the corner has a red sign and awning. There is a gold chicken on the sign. Touchdown is sitting right in the center of the chicken.  Go in the same direction as traffic and turn left at the upcoming intersection. Go straight through the next one, passing yellow and blue umbrellas on your right. Making sure you fully enter the four way intersection coming up next, go left. You should be right of the orange and white construction barrels. On the right, look for a red brick building that is gray on the bottom story. Stop when you are in front of the second door on this gray first floor. It is a gray door. Touchdown is sitting on the door handle.  Get turned so you are facing away from the intersection.  You will be heading the correct way down this small one way road. At the first intersection make a left turn. Once you are turned you'll see a lot of blue on the building on the right just ahead. Go to the end of this block. Make a right turn. Once you are turned the building on the corner on the right has a lot of red. Go just a little ways up this road. You'll pass a blue and yellow over hang on the right side. Go a little further until you are in front of the next one that is mostly yellow. When you are in front of it, it looks very faded. There is a tree with almost no leaves just past that. Touchdown is on the ground at the base of that tree.  Checking your surrounding you should be near an intersection. Move forward and make a left turn at the intersection. Continue following the road till you reach your 2nd intersection in which you want to make a left turn. Follow the road your in the rear of a delivery truck that is brown. Next to the rear is a yellow step climber. The touchdown is sitting on top of the steps but in the center. Turn around and go with the flow of traffic to the first traffic light and turn right.Go to the first traffic light and stop as soon as you can turn. Turn yourself so that you are looking at the red building on the corner. There is a garbage can on the corner and that is where you will find Touchdown. Sitting on top of the garbage can. Turn to where you're going with the traffic. Go straight past this intersection right in front of you and keep going straight past the second intersection and then turn left at the third intersection. You should now see a colorful parked truck to your left. Keep going straight for a little bit. You should pass a red container on your left. Keep going just a little more until you see a fire station with fire trucks on your left. The bear is on the right(your right) firetruck right in the middle of the windows. Turn so you are heading with the flow of traffic.  Take the first right.  Go through 2 lights.  On the right is a building with green bricks.  Pass this building, enter the intersection, turn right, and stop.  Look at the silver building with windows with blue lines.  To the right side of it there is a fire hydrant.  Th bear is on top. Travel down the one way street with the orange signs posted on the poles on each corner. Pass the red and black storefront on your right. Pass the wooden scaffolding on your right. Pass the orange traffic barriers on the left. Pass the yellow sign on the right. Stop when you are standing between two red buildings covered in graffiti. There will be a fire hydrant to your right between two metal poles. On the side of the building to your right, there is a red circle painted on a green background. Touchdown is on that circle. Turn so there is an orange dumpster on the right ahead that is covered with a blue tarp. Go straight. Make a right at the intersection. You'll see a bus stop shelter just ahead on the right. Go straight one block. Make another right turn. Now you are on a 2 lane one way road. To your left the corner building has green awnings. You will only go part way down this street. There is green scaffolding to your right. Keep going a little bit. You will see another small section of scaffolding on the right. Go just a little further. On the left side you should see a blue awning then next to it is a storefront that is painted brown.  Touchdown is on the ground at the base of the tree directly in front of the brown store front. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the skate park to your right. Continue forward until you reach the next intersection and take a right, you should be passing under a large stone archway. Continue forward until you reach the next intersection and take another right. You should see some blue bikes on your right as well as a small park behind a black fence. Continue moving forward until you reach the next intersection and take another right. Small baseball park with should be on your right and a Chinese Restaurant will be on your left. There's a red door on the building to your left continue forward until you're past the red door and stop. Look to your right and slightly ahead and you should see a fire hydrant coming out of the ground. Touchdown is at the base of the fire hydrant. Orient yourself so the apartment buildings are on your right and the elevated highway is on your left.  Go forward until you are able to turn left and then do so.  Cross under the highway, and at the intersection past the red octagons, turn left again.  Walk forward.  At your first opportunity to do so, turn left.  Cross back under the highway so you're on the side you first started on.  You'll have to make a turn when the road ends, turn left there.  On your right is a black solid fence across a driveway.  On the curb next to the driveway is a single post that has a red sign with white markings and an arrow on it.  Touchdown is in the middle of that sign. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  You should see scaffolding ahead on the right.  Turn right at the next intersection.  You should see a raised roadway ahead.  As you get closer to the roadway, but still a ways from it, you will approach a 3-way intersection to the left.  Stop just before this and you will see a yellow sign with people in black on it on a pole across this intersection and to your left..  Touchdown is hiding on this sign.


 Go in the direction that puts the torn and tattered red flag to your right and the building with the blue geometric circular icon on the left. Go to the very first intersection and make a left, there will be a store front with a large green top to your right. Go straight to the next intersection and make another left, there will be a yellow store to the left. Go straight past the road on the left. At the next intersection, go all the way to the end of the intersection before making a left and stop just past the crosswalk. There should be a bus stop to your right and the median to the left. Turn to your right to look to the right of the bus stop, right at the curb you will see a tree with a black fence around it. Touchdown will be at the base of the tree where the trunk meets the dirt.  Align yourself so the black and white striped awnings are on your left, and head with the flow of traffic. up to the first intersection.  Take a right here and look for the red green and white striped awning with a giant number on it. Touchdown is in the symbol of the store on the front side, above the words. Hello. Please orient yourself with the tall white building and black metal gates on your left side. There will be a blue building with gray loading bay doors that have graffiti to your right side. You will be facing the flow of traffic on your side of the path.

Walk forward towards the nearby intersection ahead. There will be a gray building with a bright yellow sign and white letters to your right side at the intersection. Turn right.

There will be a large bus to your left side. You will see a tall green wall to your right side. Walk forward until you are at the end of the green wall. Please stop here. You will be standing equal to a black garage door with a white sign above it to your right side.

Look to your far left side now. Near the gray building with the bright yellow sign with white letters, there are many colorful newpaper stand boxes on the sidewalk. 

Touchdown will be on top of the dark newspaper stand. It looks like a very dark blue or maybe black. It has bright pink graffiti at the bottom as well as a white sign on it. Good luck! Follow the direction of the traffic, with the black awning on your right, and make a right at the first intersection. Follow the scaffolding down the street and make your last right at the first intersection, with the orange awning. Go forward, and stop at the glass building with the red tent that is on your right. Touchdown is on the brown barrel, to the right of the red tent. Face in the same direction as traffic and walk to the intersection just ahead. Turn left. There will be scaffolding on the right. Walk down to the end of the block.

As you come to the end of the block, you will turn left. There will be a store with a sign with lighted red letters on your right. Go down the block.

At the next intersection, turn left. This time tehre will be orange and white barricades on the edge of the street on your right. Walk down to the end of the block.

At this final intersection, stop in the middle. Look ahead to the left. On the corner is a store with a green and orange striped awning. Touchdown is on the square logo of that store.
  If you are in the correct position there are two subway entrances to your right. To your left our brick buildings. Please proceed into the intersection and make a right.
If you turn right on the correct street there's a blue mailbox beside a trashcan on your left, and green scaffolding on your right.
Continue straight on the street through two intersections and on the third intersection make a right.
If you're on the correct street to your left is a building that is brown and appears he made of large squares. To your right is a white black building with brown doors and brown windows.
Continue straight on the street and cross through the first intersection.
When you reach the next intersection go into it and veer right. If you are looking straight ahead you should see a sign with an arrow touchdown is sitting directly in front of the arrow. It is the sign that is black with the white arrow in the black print. Turn so the chain link fence is to your left. 
Go straight. At the light take a sharp immediate right. You will see a bright yellow car parked on the left side of the street if you are on the right road. Head down this street straight. Go straight though two intersections. Stop at the third. Take a left here. Stop before you get to the crosswalk. On the right you will see a silver suv with a red small car parked behind it. Touchdown is in front of the left headlight on this car.  Walk against the flow of traffic on the bridge and go until you're just about at the curve where the offramp is.

To your left you will see a row of 4 concrete barriers in front of the metal guardrail, with orange lights on top of them.  

Touchdown is impaled on the first orange light. Please turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the parked cars on your street.  You should see a very dark green lamppost on your left and an orange and white chimney in the middle of the road to your right (and slightly behind you).
Start walking in the same direction as the cars on the street, and stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to. 
Turn to your left so that you see a store with a brown sign on your right and a building with  orange posters in its windows on your left, and then start walking down the street between those two buildings.  Stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to.
Turn to your left so that you now face a building with large windows on the left and a building with a black awning on your right.  Start walking down the street between those two buildings.  You will soon pass a yellow van parked on your left.  Walk just a little bit further, and stop as soon as you have passed the intersection.

Touchdown the Bear is sitting on top of a green mailbox, on the right side of the street.  There is a building with an orange, red, white, and green awning just behind that mailbox. Turn so that you are looking down the street and see a red cross with a yellow center on on the left and a tall, pointed building farther down the street on the right side of the street.
Walk forward through the first intersection.
Continue down the next block, going past a big green wall on your right. 
Turn right at the next intersection. You should see some metal building supports on your left. Continue down the street, going past a building covered in cloth on your left. 
Turn right at the next intersection that has stop lights. You should see a clock in front of a red brick building with framed signs on it on your left.
Continue down the street to the next intersection. Turn right.
On your left is a building that is painted black. In front of the building is a light pole with an orange sign on it. Touchdown is on that sign. 







 Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Move ahead to the first intersection and take a right. Shortly after the turn, on your left should be a segment of green construction walls with signs over them. Continue forward until the next intersection, and take another right.

Now there should be a sidewalk covering along your left side. Continue down this longer block and take a right at the first intersection. Now you should be on a wider road, moving with traffic. Soon on your right will be a segment of scaffolding. It has white signs on it. Touchdown is on the long skinny white sign facing you, before you get to the scaffolding. Turn yourself so the orange and white construction barriers are on the right and move straight towards the street light. Continue straight down this one way street until you reach a street light. Turn left. Go straight passing the park on the left. Continue straight until you reach an intersection. At this intersection on the left side of the road is a pole with orange/yellow crosswalk signs. You will be looking at the back of these. Touchdown is sitting on top of these crosswalk signs in the middle where the two meet.  Follow traffic to the end of the block and go left, but don't go past the crosswalk. Looking forward you should see a red bus lane stretching in front of you and a red brick building to your right.  On your right, you should see a very reflective square silver parking post. Touchdown is sitting on top of it. Face so that you will be traveling the same direction of the cars and so the intersection is right in front. Take a left at this intersection. The building on the left with has small diamonds all over it. Travel down this road, you will pass an entrance to a parking area on the right side. On the left side, there will be grey pots along the edge of the street on the sidewalk. The Touchdown is in the center of the second gray pot. The one past the bike leaning against the pole.  Turn so you face the intersection where a one lane side road meets the two way road you are standing on. walk forward. Go past the yellow sign with a male and female figure in black on it. Go all the way until you see a low white building with red lettering on it. There is a bus stop out front. Turn left here and then an immediate left again so you're following the triangle shape of the island. Follow the road back onto the one you just left - you will be headed back in the direction you just came from. On the right side of the road just past the zebra crossing there are three black painted store fronts in a row. The middle one has an awning with a picture of a pizza on it. Touchdown is in the middle of the pizza. Align yourself with the direction of the parked cars. Follow the road up and make the first right, and then do so twice more. Follow this road about three quarters down, and on your left you should see a small court with a blue basketball hoop. touchdown is sitting on the net. Turn so you're facing the big intersection that's right near you.  Move into the intersection and turn right.  You'll now have a giant black and white billboard up high on your left.  Go forward and straight through the first intersection you come to.  You'll have a building with a few blue awnings on your left.  Move forward, and note that just pass the blue awning building is a plaza with some odd lights or sculptures in it.  Stop when you're almost past the plaza, and actually in line with the far end of it.  There are two flags in this plaza.  The bear is on the blue part of the American flag.   Orient yourself with traffic, proceed, and turn right at the light. Turn right at the next light also. Stop in the middle of the next intersection. Ahead and to the right should be a playground. Touchdown is on the nearest green roof piece. Move in the direction of the cars. Turn right at the light. Go straight and turn right at the intersection. Stop when there is a small metal gate thingy on your right and a wall of movie posters to the left. There is a small red sign under one of the movie posters. Touchdown is on the small red sign.  From the direction you're looking, turn right. Face down the street where large brick buildings will be on your right and a high chain-link fence will be on your left. Travel down that street until you see a 4 way intersection with a streetlight. Continue going straight through that street light until you reach another light. There will be a small park on your right, and a one way street on your left. Just before the light, on the right side is a tall street light pole. On that pole there is a blue banner with a person on it. Touchdown is on that banner sitting on the person's head. You begin in the intersection. You want to go down the road with traffic flow that has the brown building on the bottom, gray on top, on the right. 

Go to the next corner and turn right. Go down this long block to the next intersection. 

When you are in the middle of the intersection just ahead to the left and in front of the green construction wall is a red paper box that Touchdown is sitting on top of. Not the orange box with the sign above it, but the red box with the white lettering painted on the green wall above it. Turn so the tree is to your right and you are going with traffic flow. 

Go straight and go through the intersection but turn right at the next. 

Go to the next corner and turn right again. 

Follow the road under the overpass, through the yellow and black diagonal markers on both sides of the road, and just under the next overpass. Stop underneath it. There will be a yellow sign on the right with a black arrow tip. Touchdown is sitting on top of this sign. Turn so you're facing oncoming traffic, scaffolding on your left with a white sign and a red bird on the sign.  Green awnings will also be on your right.

Go forward and through a 3-way intersection.  When you get to the next intersection, you'll see scaffolding ahead on the right and green awnings on the right corner, two sets on two different floors.  Turn right.

Go forward and when you get to the bright red trimmed building on your right, stop.  There's an Irish flag hanging here.  Touchdown is on that flag. When at the starting point please ensure that the orange traffic cone is on your left. There are also two gray mail boxes and 3 recycling bins that are brown that should be on your left as well. Once you are positioned please go straight until you reach the first intersection at which point you will turn right. Continue straight although you will veer off to the right you are still moving straight. You will come to a point where you will have the option to veer left or continue straight into a gap between two pieces of green fence. You will see a yield sign on the left of the fence, and a school zone ahead sign on the right at this point you will veer left. Then continue straight through the intersection. Once across the intersection you will see a fence on your right with banners hanging down that are mainly blue. Once you go past the first 4 banners you will see two man holes on the ground and Touchdown is sitting on the one closest to the banners. Orient yourself so you were following the flow of traffic with the red fence on your right, Go forward until you reach the next intersection and take a right, Continue forward to the next intersection and take another right, You should see a small shopping area to the right, Continue forward down this road going past the bright blue neon sign on the left, Look for the entrance to a hotel on your right, Turn to your right and you should see several potted plants in front of you click the base of the second pot from the left to find touchdown.
 Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the American flag hanging to the left in front of you. Continue moving forward going straight past the first intersection.  on your right you will see some scaffolding with a green awning. Continue down this road until you reach the next intersection and take a right. You should see some white tents on your left and scaffolding with a green awning on your right. Continue down this road to the next intersection and take another right. You should see a small clothing stand to the right of the road in front of you and a coffee shop on your left.  Continue moving forward until you have passed the coffee shop on the left and stop.  Turn to your left and you'll see a large delivery bay door. Touchdown is sitting on the bottom right corner of the bay door where it touches the ground. Turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street. You should see scaffolding on your right, and a bright orange, diamond-shaped sign on the sidewalk to your right.  

Walk forward a short distance into the intersection, stop, and turn to your right.  Walk down this narrow street that has diagonally-parked cars on its right side.  You should see a bridge up ahead.  

Just keep walking straight, towards the bridge, but stop when you come to an intersection.  Turn to your right and face down a road that runs parallel to the bridge.  You should see a blue car and a blue van parked in a row of cars on the left of this street.  Both the car and the van have a blue lettering and a blue stripe.  Walk forward down this road, keeping the bridge on your left.  

When you come to an intersection, turn to your right, and face down a narrow road with an empty, fenced lot on the left and a red and white wall on the right with red brick pillars.  Walk down the street between these two things.  

You will soon see a building with a green awning on your left, and another building with a dark red awning on your right.  Try to stay on the road so that the red awning stays on your right.  (Do not go down the narrow lane with scaffolding on both sides).  If you see a lamppost with a yellow diamond-shaped sign above a small square yellow sign, you are on the right track.  

Walk forward just a little bit further, and Touchdown the Bear should be on top of the highest point of that yellow diamond-shaped sign.   Orient yourself with traffic and pass through the narrow street. Turn right at the first stoplight, and then make a quick right at the next light too. Proceed forward stopping just before entering the next intersection. You should see a wooden bench to the right in front of a store. Touchdown sits in its center seat. Turn so that the small red store is to your left. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. There should be a green garbage can to your right. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left. There should be a white metal star in front of you to the right. Walk straight through the next intersection to the next one. Stop when you reach the cross walk. Face left.

There is an orange paper taped to the light post. Touchdown is in the middle of the paper. Turn to face in the same direction as the cars and walk toward the intersection.

Turn right and walk to the end of the block. You will see an overpass, but the intersection is just before. 

Turn left. You will be walking past a storefront with pictures of different people in various hairstyles or makeup. Walk to the end of the block.

Turn left again. Walk until you come to the next intersection.

At this final intersection, turn left one more time. Make sure you are traveling on the left side of the divided road, against traffic.

Before you come to the intersection, look to your left. There will be a small tree and then a fire hydrant. Touchdown is on the top of the hydrant.



 Go with the flow of the traffic. You should see stacks of food on your right. Go to the intersection and take a right. You should see a building on the left with lights on and a white building on the right. You're going to keep forward and go in between all of the buses. Then you will take a right at the intersection. Now you are going to go up to the bridge and stop. There will be a green bus on the right. Your touchdown is the top of the yellow concrete pole that is behind the fence Orient yourself so you are looking down the only street that has cars parked the same way on both sides of the street.  You'll have a black awning over a store on your right and a pastel painted swirled mural store front on your left.  Walk down this street, passing the white building with the bright red door on your left.  At the end of the green building with a mural painted on it that's on your left, stop and look at the building.  On the dark brick building right next to the green one, you should see a silver square with two green circles on it, near the sidewalk.  Touchdown is in the middle of this square. Follow the flow of traffic with the white awning on your right and make a right at the intersection. Continue moving forward and make your last right at the second intersection where you have a yellow awning on your right. Continue and stop when you reach the first intersection with the parks in front of you across the street. On your left, there is a red/green awning with a yellow sign above it that has red symbols. Touchdown is on the right air conditioner above the sign. Walk in the same direction as traffic, keeping the restaurant with the red lobsters on the signs to your right. Walk ahead, going right at the first intersection.  The left most lane of this street is green. Walk ahead. Go right at the first intersection. Walk just past the food stand on your left and turn to face the first subway stairs on your right.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the trash bin to the right of that stairwell, right in the center. Move with the flow of traffic, past a small gated parking lot on your right. When you reach an intersection turn right, and there should be a long green awning on your right corner. Now move to the next intersection and go right again. You should have a yellow painted area on the left, and a blue door on the right. Move forward until you are past a gated garden area on the right.  Soon on your right is a diamond yellow sign. When you are almost next to that sign, stop, and touchdown is in the center of the sign. Turn so you're facing into the intersection right near you, and the building with the blue awnings is on your right.  Move into the intersection and turn right.  The blue awnings should now be on your right.  
Go forward one short block, and turn right again.  You should see, on your right, some metal barriers folded up along the sidewalk, and the shop on that side has paper over the windows and bare spots where signs used to be above the awnings.  Go forward, and you'll come to construction scaffolding on the left side.  As you move along this construction scaffolding, you'll see that there are police department shield symbols on the fence under the scaffolding.  Go forward until you're just barely past the third shield.  The bear is in the center of this third shield. Orient yourself in which there is a basketball court to your left. Follow the road passing various parked cars, flags on your right, and  scaffolding on both side of the street. Once you pass the scaffolding, you should pass a blue stair. Once you pass the blue stairs you should arrive at an intersection. Make a right turn at the intersection Once you made a right turn. Continue forward passing the parked cars and scaffolding on your right. You should make a right turn at the intersection you arrive at. Once you made a right turn, Look to your right. There should be a green trash bin near the blue scaffolding. The touch down is sitting on top of the trash bin. Move in the direction of the cars. Turn right at the intersection. Stop just before you reach the next intersection. To your right there is a trash can with stars around the rim that has bags of trash sitting in front of it. Touchdown is on top of the trash can opening. Orient yourself in the direction of the bikes to the right. Go straight until reaching the intersection. Turn left at the intersection. Touchdown is on top of the first orange cone to the right. You're starting in an intersection.  Look at all four corners here, and find the corner with the yellow newspaper dispenser box.  Turn yourself so that will be on your left side as you move out of the intersection.  Move forward and go one short block to the next intersection.  Make a left, and then you'll have a restaurant with a red awning on your left side., and construction fencing on your right.  Go forward, and your road will curve to the left as you go.  As you come out of the curve you'll see lots of umbrellas on your right (farmers market stalls).   Watch these umbrellas as you go.  You'll pass two blue and white ones.  The next batch after that are faded red/yellow/green umbrellas.  Move so you're just past these faded umbrellas.  The bear is on top of the faded umbrella closest to you. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Head forward down this street.  Shortly, you'll see ahead and to the right a lot of flags.  Stop just before you get to that intersection and you're next to a pole on your right.  There's a tree left of that pole and a planter box with orange flowers to the left of that.  Touchdown is at the base of the tree Turn so you're facing into the tunnel, and the orange cones are on your left side.  Go forward, and continue all the way through the tunnel.  As soon as you come out of the tunnel, you'll come to an intersection.  Turn right at this intersection.
This is a short block - go to the other end of it.  Stop when you can see that you are standing in the intersection (go by your sight).  Straight in front of you is one orange traffic cone.  The bear is on the top of that cone.   Follow the flow of traffic, where the black storefront with yellow letters is to the left. Turn left when you reach the third traffic light, where you see the blue scaffolding on the right. After turning left, there will be a green awning on the left, keep going and stop when you reach the black sign on the pole on the white building to your right. Touchdown will be on the black sign. Align yourself so that the theater awning is on your right, and you're heading with the flow of traffic. You'll head straight through the first intersection, and make a right at the second.

head down this street to the intersection, and go directly in to the intersection. In front of you to your right, the park sign will have an orange up arrow in it. Touchdown is in the arrow. Turn to move with traffic and so the scaffolding is on your right. Walk forward through the first intersection.

Keep going to the next intersection. Turn right. A school playground and colorful fence will be on your left. 

Walk through the three way intersection. Once you are through, look to the left. Pass the storefront with graffiti on the rolling security door. Past that shop there is one with a white sign and orange lettering. There is an image of a man on the left and a woman on the right. Touchdown is on the woman. Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Move to the intersection and turn right. Go to the next intersection and turn right again. On your left will be a long wall covered with trees/greenery. You'll soon get to an opening in the greener, where there is a metal fence. Directly across from it, on your right is glass doors to a store. On top of the doors is a red logo. Touchdown is on the logo. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.

Go straight for a while and take the offramp to the right as soon as you can.

Stop when you see two small green signs on a pole and a cyan/blue thing in the grate on the right.

Take another step or two forward and you'll see a white diamond sign with red spots on it above the yellow retaining barrels.

Touchdown is on the white diamond sign. Move with the flow of traffic, with the concrete wall to your right. Move ahead straight through 2 3-way opportunities to turn. At thethird, turn right. You should be on a narrow 2-way road, with a construction wall and white/orange barrier to your right. Move ahead a bit until on your left, you have started to walk next to a tall green brickwall. Touchdown is on the small yellow sign under a small white sign. position yourself so you are following the traffic direction. Turn right at the 1st intersection you are facing. There is a trash can, an orange and a yellow newspaper box on your right. Once you turn Go straight to the next intersection. There are some big dumpsters to your right before you reach the intersection. Turn right at this intersection. Then look ahead. There is a overhead walkway in front of you and there is a green sign on that overhead walkway with an arrow. The touchdown is in the middle of that sign.  Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic, and head to the nearest intersection.  Continue straight.  Continue through the next intersection.  Take the next right.  Before you enter the next intersection look right and back a little.  There is a bike that is chained up with red handles.  The bear is on the seat.   Orient yourself so that you are going down this ramp.  At the traffic light, take a right. You'll have a park to your right. You'll go straight through the next intersection.  There will be a business near the next corner on your right that has a yellow banner sign.  Touchdown will be on the neon yellow sign for pedestrians in front of this business. Turn so the gas station is on the right side of the street. Go straight through this intersection. At the next light go straight. Go one more block and take a right. There will be a short brick fence along the left side of the street. Go straight down this road. Stop when you come to the bus parked on the left side of the street with red and blue stripes on it. Touchdown is in the middle of the gray star on the side of this bus.  GO WITH traffic to the light, turn around, and come back to the position you started at. The mandatory previous step courtesy of bureaucratic red tape and/or routes.

GO THROUGH the intersection, STOP before reaching the crosswalk.

Ahead and to your right are four white-capped bell-shaped bollards at the end of a concrete traffic island.   FIND Touchdown sitting in the middle of the bench behind them and the grey pole. It should start you in the lane where you're against traffic. Continue against the traffic until you hit the intersection and take a right. Now you should see red bricks with a fence on your right with the trees. On the left is a red sign on a building with white lettering. If you look up while you're in the middle of the intersection you should see the no turning left sign. Your touchdown is in the middle.  Face oncoming traffic. Go forward, when you can switch right and onto your side of the street.  Continue forward.  You will need to turn left.  There is a bright red car parked on the corner where you need to go.  Cross the street and stay on this little road.  Pass the right turn, but only by a step or 2.  Look right.  There is a security camera pointing at the door/gate of the building.  The bear is on it.   Turn to your right and walk until you see an intersection. Touchdown is on the "No U turn" sign above two people. Turn and go in the direction with the traffic. There is some construction on the right. Go straight at the traffic light. Turn right at the intersection.On the right will be a covered seating with blue on it. Turn right at intersection so that the bridge will be on your left. When you get  a left turn arrow stop in the road and look to the right at a gate. Touchdown is sitting on the orange and white cone behind the gate. Align yourself with the flow of traffic in your lane. Head to the intersection, and make a right. At the next intersection, you'll make a right, and head almost all the way down this road.

Once you pas the glass building with 4 poles on your left, you're getting close. You'll pass 5 green dumpsters as well.

On your right, scaffolding should start, and in the first part of the scaffolding, you should see two blue boxes for newspapers Touchdown is on the right blue box. Turn yourself until you are facing the bridge and start down the street.  Turn left at the first intersection.  Then turn left again at the next intersection.  AS you head down that street, you should see a vacant area on your right bordered by an iron fence and several potted shrubs on your right as well.  Once past the shrubs, you will see a line of rental bikes on your right.  Touchdown is sitting on the last gray pole of the bike racks on your right. Turn around until you see a yellow semi truck parked on the right. Head straight down the road and take a left on the first available left. The should be construction cones on the right. Go straight down the street and take a left on the first street on your left. Go about 20 feet down the road and you should see a garage door on your left. The bear is on the very bottom right window pane to the left of the garage door. You're going to want to go with the flow of the traffic. You're going to go to the second bike image on the road. The one that is closest to the STOP text. Look down. There is a circular sewer thing. The middle is your touchdown.  Align yourself so you can see the brown delivery truck in front of you. Make a right at the intersection. Make another right at the next intersection. Follow this road down, and then make another right. Take three steps down from here, and you should see a white car parked in front of a restaurant. Touchdown is on the A in the window of the restaurant. Orient yourself so that there's a red awning on your right and you'll be going with the flow of traffic.  At this intersection, turn left.  Go all the way to the next intersection.There will be a black awning to your left.  Look below the awning there's a sign on the sidewalk.  Touchdown is in the center of the image on that sign. Follow the flow of traffic to the intersection and then turn right. Once you see another intersection there should be construction. Turn right there. Turn right again at the next intersection. There will be a truck with its back door open to your left just before another intersection. The touchdown is in the middle of the truck's front right tire. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, with the white pick up truck far in front of you. Ignore the first two turns and go to the third, and make a right. About three quarters down this road you'll see a bus stop on your left. Touchdown is sitting in the middle seat. Turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  There should be an orange sign with black lettering in front of you, and a red wall to your right.  

Walk forward a short distance, and then walk straight through the orange metal construction fence.  You should see an orange and a yellow newspaper box on the left hand sidewalk and a red newspaper box on the right.  If you still see the construction barriers in front of you, go back and try again, this time moving straight forward, and not to the left.  

When you are properly situated, move straight down this road.  You should see purple awnings and flags on the left.  

Move forward into an intersection, and then step straight forward towards the orange barrels and silver hot-dog carts.  Stop, and look for an orange umbrella on a food cart.  Touchdown the Bear should be sitting on the highest point of this umbrella. Turn so you are heading with the flow of traffic.  Take the first left, then the next left.  You will pass a building that is yellow on your left.  Pass the barricades on the left.  Near the end is a building with a black/grey overhang with gold posts.  Stop before it.  Look left.  You should be just before a black and white shop  The bear is on the black square on the door.   Orient yourself so that the stores are on your left and apartments are on your right. Go straight and pass 2 intersections. Just before you reach the third traffic light stop when you see the yellow awning on your left and another yellow awning on your right. Touchdown is on the orange number of the white awning on your right. Follow traffic and go left at the light, then make a left at the next one, and a left at the one after that as well. There'll be a white building with grey awnings on your left and a park on your right.  Stop just as you reach the scaffolding on the left.  On the street lamp ahead and on the right side of the street is a streetlight with a banner with what appear to be tomatoes. Touchdown is in the center of it. turn around and go against the flow of traffic as soon as you go past the first street there will be an olive color mail box on the left. Touchdown is sitting on top of it. Orient yourself so that you'll be going on the two way street.  The blue building and fire escape should be ahead and the building with bright yellow awning should be behind you.  At the next intersection. turn right.  You'll have a green awning to your left that has lots of pictures. Go to the next intersection and turn right.  At the next intersection, you'll turn right.  There will be an orange and white store on your right.  When you get to the business with a yellow awning on the left. stop.  Touchdown is sitting on the traffic cone in front of that business. Follow the flow of traffic.  Pass the first small intersection (Left only).  Pass small right entrance.  At intersection, go left, and then straight into oncoming traffic. At the intersection, go right.   On your right there is an open fence for parking.  Stop and face straight in.  Turn around and look at the trash under the red car.  The bear is on it. Turn to go with traffic, you will be at an intersection, take the right at the intersection. There will be a store front where the windows look like garage doors to your right. Ahead of you is a tall yellow building, head down the street towards it. At the intersection across the street from the yellow building, take a right, you will be facing and underpass. Just after you exit the underpass there will be a fire hydrant to your right, the bear is on the hydrant Position yourself so the bus stop in front of a black wrought iron gate and a huge green building is on your right. At the first intersection, turn right. After you turn, there will be yellow and orange newspaper stands on your right and a construction zone in the street on your left. 

Go through the next two intersections and stop at the crosswalk that has a brick building with many red awnings and a light-colored fire escape on your right. Turn completely around and  head back where you came from. 

Pass through the first traffic light (which is more of a pedestrian crossing than anything), and turn left at the first real intersection.After you turn, there will be a mirrored building with black awnings on your right. You'll be moving the wrong way down a one-way street. 

Go straight through the pedestrian crossing, and move directly into the center of the first intersection. Turn around and face the direction you just came from. There's a business on your left with bright green signs. In front of that business, on the corner, is a silver trash bin Touchdown is sitting right on top of that trash bin. Hello there!

1. Turn to the right until you're going with the flow of traffic. There should be a black building with metal shutters covering the windows on your left.

2. At the first intersection, take a left. There should now be two white and green umbrellas on your right and a little further up.

3. Go straight, passing through the next two intersections. At the third intersection, take a left and immediately stop.

4. If you look down the street that you just turned on, there should be scaffolding and a construction area to your left and a red building to your right. On the corner on the same side as the red building is a green trashcan with a bike leaning against it. Touchdown is sitting on top of the trashcan.

Good luck! :) Hello, please orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic. On your left side, there will be a bright red pole next to a dark trashcan with bars if you are facing the correct way. Go forward a little bit. Turn right here. There are two dark trashcans made of bars with parked cars lining the way. Go straight until you reach an intersection. Turn right here. There will be some tall plants and parked vehicles lining the way. Continue straight through another intersection with two red signs on each side. Do not make any turns. Directly after, you will see a green building to your left side with a bright white van to your right side. Look to your left. Next to the green building is a gray building. Look up until you see a red flower in the sign. Click in the center of this red flower to find Touchdown Bear. Good luck! Go with traffic down the road with the black fence to your left and a building to the right with a huge phone between white and black on it. Go through the first light and go left at the next.

Stop when you're at the long black awning with white text. Rotate left.  You'll be looking at a gap in the fence. Look slightly to the right of it.

Touchdown is on the dark black square on the top light grey square of the control box on the chainlink fence. With the playground on your right, go forward to the first intersection and take a left.  Go straight passing one intersection and turn at the next intersection.  You will be going against the flow of traffic.  A little way up this block will be a black awning on your left.  Just past it there is a mailbox with graffiti that Touchdown will be hiding on top off. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
The silver railing barriers will be on your right.  Turn left at the first intersection.
Head forward, past the scaffolding on the right and the straight through the intersection ahead. Step into the next intersection and almost into the crosswalk at the opposite side.
Ahead on the right corner will be a large red lobster where Touchdown is hiding in it's claws. orient yourself with the flow of traffic. you should be facing a construction site on the left. proceed strait towards that along with the flow of traffic. continue until you reach the intersection.  Turn right at the intersection. Proceed straight until you reach another intersection. Turn right at the intersection. There should be a mail box on the right. continue past the mail box. You will find a blue trash bag on the side walk on your right. Continue a little further.  You will see a red vehicle behind a black vehicle on your right. STOP. Look for the red umbrella table. Touchdown is on top of this on the left corner.  Orient yourself until the blue bikes on the left side. Go straight until reaching an intersection with islands in the middle. Take a left here. Go straight until reaching the intersection with construction cones to the left. Touchdown is in the rightmost doorway on the left. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
As you move forward you will enter a tunnel you won't expect.  Keep heading forward and you will eventually be back on surface streets.  At the intersection, turn left.  [Play with the controls]  You need to go left.  If you're in the right place, you will see a red awning on the right with a red banner above it, followed by two blue awnings.  Turn left at the next intersection as well and you will see a green awning to your left and metal textured, uneven marquee on the business to your right that has yellow writing.
Heading forward, you will once again move unexpectedly and see a white sign on top of an orange sign on a pole to the right.  Move forward just past that and look back to your right.  You should see a red hydrant recessed in the wall.  Touchdown is sitting on the hydrant. You begin in the middle of the intersection, so turn so the red front store with the painting is on your right and the playground is on your left. Go down this road between them for quite a bit, then turn left at the first chance you get. 

Go to the light and turn left. Go just a short bit and notice the playground on the left with the black fence. Near the edge of the road is a black hydrant that Touchdown is sitting on top of. 

 Turn so the building that appears to be all windows is on your right. Go straight through the first light you come to. At the next intersection take a right. If you look to the left you will see water in the distance. Go straight down this road with traffic. Just past the light you will see three circles on the building to your right. Touchdown is in the center circle right in the middle.  Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Head to the nearest intersection.  As you pass the trash on the left the navigation will get weird, stay straight.  At the fork, stay left.  When this road ends, turn left.  Go through one intersection, then take a quick left.  Continue to the next intersection, but stop at the crosswalk, before you enter it.  To the left side there are 4 orange cones.  The 2nd one is much brighter than the others.  The bear is on top.   Align yourself with the flow of traffic. Head to the intersection and make a left. At the next intersection, make another left. Follow this road down a while, and pass the PARK sign a few steps. On your left you should see 3 large closed gated doors, and a glass doored store with gates closed on the inside. Touchdown is on the left door handle. From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  The building with the large white lettering should be on your right, and the white and yellow striped construction barriers should be on your left.  

Walk forward into the intersection, and then take a right.  You should now be walking down a two-way street with a median in the middle (on your left), and a multicolored wall on your right.  Walk forward, and then stop in the middle of the next intersection you come to.  

Turn to your right in this intersection.  You should see a silver ladder leaning up against some scaffolding on the left side of a narrow street.  Walk down this street, and keep moving straight until you come to a T-intersection on the other side.  

Turn to your right in this intersection.  You should see scaffolding on your right and a red neon sign in a store window on your left.  Walk down this road, and you should be able to follow a green bike lane in the middle of the road.  

When you come to another T-intersection on the other side, turn right.  There should be a white storefront with black lettering above the windows on your right as you walk down this street.  

Walk past this store, look to the right, and stop when you are looking directly at another white store, this time with a circular black logo above its door.  Touchdown is sitting on top of that black circle.  Make sure to start by having a green shop with bikes to your right, then continue forward, keep going straight when you pass a construction site on both sides. At the intersection turn left, you will have scaffolding to your left, go straight. Turn left at the nearest intersection and keep walking forward. You will once again have scaffolding to your left. When the scaffolding finishes, walk a little bit forward. You will have a tore with a white flag with some orange like writing to your left. Touchdown is sitting at the silver door knob at the black doors between two stores. Go with the flow of traffic to the first traffic light and turn left.at the next traffic light turn left and stop On the corner next to a light pole is a garbage can with Touchdown sitting on top of it. There is a playground on this corner also Oreint yourself so the parking lot is on the left side of the street. Go straight towards the intersection.  Take a right at this intersection. Go forward to the first intersection and make a right.  Go straight and through the first intersection. At the second intersection, on the left side will be a red box outside the door, Go straight through the intersection. On the right side of the street, there is a black fire hydrant with two silver poles on either side of it. There are some white trash bags near it. You'll find the Touchdown on top of the fire hydrant.  Stand so that you are facing against the flow of traffic. Move forward to the intersection and turn left. Walk to the next intersection, and turn left. Walk straight for awhile, passing a building on your left with glass windows, yellow writing on the windows, and a row of blue chairs. Continue until you see on your right a tan brick building with green doors. Across from it, on your left, is a red circular awning above a clear/silver door. Touchdown is in the center of the awning. Turn so you are facing a store with red awning on the left and construction on your right.  Travel across the intersection and follow traffic down this road, crossing the next intersection.  Continue to the next intersection and turn left.  You will now have a grey brick building on your right and green construction on your left.  Proceed to the next intersection and turn left, keeping the green construction on your left.  Enter this road and stop just a short way down the road.  On the right side with the park, there is a green fire hydrant with two red poles beside it. Touchdown is on top of the white top of the green fire hydrant. You should orient yourself so you see the the red and green sign on your left and red white and wood sign on your right. You'll go past the three way until you hit the next intersection until STOP is right in front of you. Your touchdown is the middle of the octagon sign on your right.   Orient yourself so that there is a long orange fencing to your left. Go straight and make a left at the first intersection. Make a left at the next intersection as well. There will be a brick church and a yellow sign with a curvy arrow on the right. The touchdown is locate in the middle of the yellow sign. (note there are two yellow signs, you want the one on the right hand side near the church) Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the construction on your left. Continue to the next intersection and take a right. You should see some construction debris on your left and a short tunnel in front of you. Go forward until you have passed through the tunnel and you are just before the middle of the intersection in front of you. Stop and turn back to your  right side and you will see a green box hanging from a light pole click the bottom right corner of the green box to find touchdown. Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street. Go straight until you reach an intersection, then turn left.  Go one very short block and turn left at the next intersection.  Walk straight through the next intersection you come to.  Then watch the buildings on your right.  The first one has fancy brickwork in the archways on the second floor (orange and white almost striped patter).  The next building has dark green paint on everything at street level.  Pass the building with dark green paint, and stop when you're almost even with the stoop/stairs of the brown building after it (the stairs are just a touch ahead of you on your right).  The bear is sitting in the middle of the bottom step. Turn so you heading down the street with traffic. There is a gray van parked to your right to start off. Head down to the first intersection and take a right. Go down this street a bit and take another right at the first intersection you come to.
Head down this street past the school buses. You will come to a brick building on the left with an american flag on the front. Touchdown is sitting on the pole sticking out from the building right below the hanging American flag.
 Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Head to the nearest intersection.  Turn left.  At the next intersection, turn left.  This road will curve.  Follow it until just before the road stops curing.  Look right.  There is a motorcycle facing you.  The bear is on the headlight.   Turn around and go with the flow of traffic.Go to the third traffic light and turn right.About a third of the way down this street you will see a billboard on your right after a set of red doors. Touchdown is sitting on the mans chin on this sign Turn so the parked cars are on your left and proceed forward the direction they are facing.  When you get to the intersection ahead, turn right.  You'll see a building on your right with blue widows and fire escape stairs.  Follow this road through the first small intersection and turn right when you get to the next intersection.  There will now be a barrier on your left dividing the traffic and a green bike path.  Follow this road and stop when you reach the second crosswalk after the row of blue bikes.  Look to your left and there is a black garbage can just left of the street light post.  The lid of the can is slightly ajar.  Touchdown is sitting on the hole in the middle of that lid. Turn and follow traffic down the street. There will be a red and white overhang over a store  to the right. Turn right at the intersection.  There will be blue signs on the left. You will pass a bicycle parking area. on the left. Turn right at intersection. Gray metal construction on left. Turn right at intersection. Brick building with green on it on left.  There will be a green overhang on the left. Right past it there is a red and white sign with a star on it. Touchdown is on the star.  Go follow the direction of traffic. pass the first intersection. Continue go straight, before you reach next intersection, you will see a food stand on the left side of the street. There is also a white van parked next to the food stand. Go pass the white van, on your left you will see a store with dark green/grey color. The store name is written in white letters leading by a round shape. The touchdown is on the round shape right above the door.  On your right is a building with beige awnings. On the left is a building with gray awnings. Once you're in the proper position please travel straight. When you reach the first intersection please make a left turn. If you turn on the correct street you'll see of storing your right that is gray with large windows displaying their items. On the left you will see a gray building with arched windows and a gold colored stripe above the doors and windows. Please go straight on this road.
At the next intersection please make a left. And you're right you should see electronic sign above the stores. On the left you should see some restaurants. Please remain straight. You will be passing by orange and white construction barriers in your left. When you get to the end of them touched down is sitting on the corner of the last white one that is parallel with you. He is on the corner. Orient yourself with traffic and face the intersection. Ahead are colorful billboards and a familiar fast food restaurant with a yellow arch to the left. Enter the intersection and take the first right (down the pedestrian corridor, not with the street). Turn right again at the next intersection down a one way street. You'll pass by a parking garage entrance on the left and a popular chain hotel with a red M logo on the right. You'll then pass theaters on both the left and right. Look up to the right and Touchdown is on top of the far right corner of the large blue sign over the beige colored building at the end of the red wall on the left side of the street.  Walk in the same direction as traffic, and immediately enter the intersection. Go right. You will pass a brick building on your left with green painted lines around the windows. Walk ahead. Go right at the next intersection. There will be a big billboard on the building to your left with a piano keyboard on it. Walk straight ahead. Go right at the next intersection. There will be lit up trees on your left. Walk ahead, coming to a green roof over construction posts on the sidewalk to your right. You will see a green trash can under it. Just past the trashcan, pass two yellow posts and a fire hydrant on the same side. Turn to look at it right after you walk past it. Touchdown is sitting right on top of the fire hydrant.  You will be starting in the middle of the intersection. Turn so that you see the black iron fence on your left and right side and trees along both sides. Go straight. You will come to an intersection after the trees/park area. Go straight through this intersection. At your next intersection you will see a chicken place with a red storefront at your top right. Turn left at this intersection. You should now see a set of four blue flags hanging from a building. Go straight just past those flags until you see a bus stop booth that is yellow. There is a round sign on the right side of the bus stop, touchdown is on this round sign.  Align yourself with the building with the red line and glass doors to your left. Head down this street against the flow of traffic.

Ignore the first intersection, and take a left at the second. Take this road down to the next intersection, and make a left. 

Halfway down this street, you should reach a store with a blue storefront, and to the left of it, three red awnings. Touchdown is sitting on the middle of the middle awning. Go with traffic to the light and go right. Go right again at the next light.  To your right should now be a park with a high black fence around it.  Go straight through the next light. [Interface issue: Need to go left slightly and then right.]

To your left should be trees and shrubbery behind a fence, before scaffolding. To your right, in the distance, should be some beautiful orange leaves on trees. Rotate right.  Directly in front of you should be two olive colored mailboxes and a smaller blue one. Touchdown is centered atop the latter. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, the scaffolding with the black sign should be ahead of you on your right. Head to the intersection to make a right.

The scaffolding should not be on your left after the turn. Head all the way down past the first intersection and make a right at the second. Right before the next intersection, you'll see a trash can on the corner and a potted plant with a small tree that has yellow and green leaves. Touchdown is at the base of the plant. Follow the same direction the cars are going until you reach the intersection. Turn left. There is a store with a green awning on the right side. Go straight until the next intersection. Go into the middle of the intersection.On the right side on the corner there is a large pile of trash. touchdown is on the ground at the base of the stoplight pole that is right next to that pile. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and the road bending to the right.  Follow this around and stay left when the road starts to split.  When you're close to the yellow barrier that splits the road, stop when you're about to pass it.  Touchdown is hiding on this end of the yellow barrier splitting the road. Orient yourself with traffic and proceed through the first intersection. At the next intersection, turn right. Proceed and then turn right at the next intersection also. Stop just after passing through the next intersection.Touchdown sits at the base of the first tree on your right. Turn so that there are blue bikes on your left and follow the flow of traffic,at the first traffic light turn left. Make another left turn at the next light.Going with the flow of traffic go to the first light and make a left. Past  the next light there is an olive color mail box in front of a store with orange green and red strip. Touchdown is sitting on top of the mail box Turn and head in the direction where the bike parking is on your left. Go straight at the first traffic light. a blue and white awning to the left.  Go straight again at the next traffic light. Before you get to the next traffic light there is a white and black sign to the right. Touchdown is sitting on top of the sign.  Orient yourself with traffic and proceed forward through the intersection. Make a sharp right at the next intersection. Proceed forward. Turn right at the next intersection. Stop when a restaurant with a red awning is on your right. This store has a low planter of flowers outside. Touchdown is in the planter. Face the direction that the cars are going and make a quick right at the light. go to the end of the block and make a right. Go straight and make a right at the light Touchdown will be on top of the mailbox on your left. Move in the direction of the cars. Turn left at the intersection. Go straight through the next two intersections. Stop just after you pass the American flag on your right. There are two arrows painted on the road ahead of you. Touchdown is in the center of the arrow in the right lane. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Go straight, this street is a bit long.
Turn right at the next intersection.
On your right, you'll see 4 newspaper stands, in order they should be orange, blue, red, yellow.  Go forward.
Turn right at the next intersection.
When you do you should see scaffolding ahead on the left and a store with a red sign and yellow lettering.
Go just past the scaffolding and look right.  You should see 2 yellow circles on the sidewalk.  Touchdown is on the leftmost yellow circle. Following the direction of the traffic. You will see a Yellow company truck on the left side of the road. Continue heading that direction. You will know you are doing it right when you see a Brown delivery truck in front of you. Go pass the intersection, to the next one. You will know you are at the right intersection when you can see a three letter store with heart shaped logo on the left side of the intersection. Turn right at this intersection, you will see tents on the left side of the road and the Mobile carrier van on the right. heading to the delivery truck, then on the left side of the delivery truck there's a store that has blue label sign, the touchdown is at the white/red part on that sign.  If you are in the correct position directly ahead you will see orange and white construction barriers made of plastic. They should be on your left-hand side. On your right you should see a bunch of green metal bars holding up scaffolding. Head straight towards the construction barriers. When you come to the first intersection if you look to your right you will see a brownish colored building with a brownish colored awning with white letters.
At this intersection you must make a right.
If you've turned the correct way you will see a stored your left that has several red awnings with white letters. To your right you will also see one right awning and some red fencing. Please continue straight on the street until you reach the next intersection.
You will now turn right on this intersection. To the left you will see a food stand with two umbrellas. To the right you should see a gray mailbox on the sidewalk. Please continue straight. You will see a orange awning to your right wintry travel short distance further. Before you get to that awning you will see a red colored umbrella maybe more of a maroon Touchstone is sitting directly on top of the center of this umbrella. Facing traffic, go down this road, under the bridge ahead. As you begin coming out of this dark area, you'll see three red boxes with x's in them in front of you. Keep moving closer to those then look to the ironwork directly to your left when you pass those red boxes with x's. You will notice a green light in the distance as you go slowly. Move closer until that green light is clearer and just a bit ahead to the left. Touchdown is on that light covering it.  If you are in the correct position there is a black fence on your right with lots of trees within it. To your left will be buildings of red brick one with three black awnings.
Please head straight on the street.
You will be passing a building of red awnings with white stripes on your left.
When you come to the first intersection please make a right.
You should see a white brick building with a red awning to your right. On the left is a residential building that is white and gray.
Continue straight, and in your right will see white and yellow striped construction barriers on the ground. On your right you will notice three orange plastic construction barriers followed by two white ones. Then there is one more orange one. At the very end of the last orange one touchdown is sitting on top of it. Turn and face the only direction you can walk without entering the intersection you are standing at. A storefront with a red awning will be on your left. It is the most colorful thing you should see from here. Walk ahead. Go straight through the next intersection, passing an old brick church on your right. It has fancy arched windows and a colorful cross flag. At the next intersection, go right. Notice the funny shaped tree immediately on the corner to your right. Walk ahead. Notice the big green dumpster covered with a blue tarp ahead on your right. Walk past it, stopping in front of a green awning on the building on the right. There are two potted trees on either side of the awning. Touchdown is sitting right on top of the potted treetop on the right.  Going with the flow of traffic, go to the first intersection and turn right. At the next intersection turn right. There will be scaffolding on your right.  Go straight.  You'll pass the scaffolding and traffic barriers on your right, then pass the traffic barriers on your left. After that, look to the right hand side.  There will be a pile of white garbage bags on the curb, Touchdown will be on the ground at the base of the door column closest to the trash bags. turn to go with traffic, there is an immediate intersection, go straight through it, you will pass a store with a bike on the awning, you will pass a building on your right with bright red doors, continue to the intersection and take a right. Continue to the following intersection and take right again, there will be a phone booth on your right, continue down this road. There is a fenced in parking lot on your right followed by a building with red doors, the bear is in the middle of the door handles Orient yourself so that you are facing oncoming traffic.  You will have the choice to turn right or go backwards.  Turn right.  You'll jump out of the tunnel.
At this point you should be going with the flow of traffic still, and there should be a restaurant with maroon signage on your right.  Head all the way down the street to the first intersection.  Turn right.  There will be a flower stand with a red awning on your right.  Exit the intersection, then immediately stop.  Turn to look at this flower stand.  In front of it is a blue mailbox.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the mailbox.   Hello. Please orient yourself with the flow of traffic in the direction of the parked cars. 

There will be a black building with a red sign that has white letters and a tomato on it to your left side. You will see a glass and black accented building to your right side that has a bright yellow sign with white and yellow letters.

Walk forward to the first intersection. Turn left. 

There will be two yellow newspaper stands to your right side next to a park. Walk forward down this long path. You will pass by some scaffolding with green awning to your right side. 

When you reach the next intersection, turn left again.

You will see a purple and yellow striped awning to your right side. Walk forward to the next intersection. Turn left once more.

There will be a tall gray fence with skinny bars to your right side. Walk forward on this path. You will pass some orange and white construction barriers on your left side. Keep going but slow down when you reach the next intersection.

Please stop when you are standing on the crosswalk before you enter the intersection. To your left, you will see a red and white striped awning on the building. There will be a red pole next to a dark mesh trashcan on the sidewalk corner. 

Touchdown is on top of the red pole next to the dark trashcan. There are many little signs on this red pole. Good luck! Go with traffic flow through the first intersection but turn right at the following one. It will be a 3-way. 

Go down this narrow street and go through the next 3-way you come to. up ahead on the right is a red awning with the address in white letters on it. Touchdown is on top of the numbers on the red awning as if he were covering them up. Turn so the blue bikes are on your right. You will see a bride in the distance. Head towards the bridge. Go straight through the first light. There will be a playground on your right. Take a right a short distance down the street. You will see the playground on your right through a fence. Go straight. Take a left into a parking lot. Stop in front of the empty spot on your left with an orange cone in it. Touchdown is sitting on top of this orange cone.  Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. To your right, there should be a building with a painting of flowers and butterflies on a light blue background along the bottom of it. There should be an intersection clearly in view.

2. Take a left at this intersection. In front of you, there should now be large brick buildings with short fences around hedges and trees on either side of the street.

3. Go all of the way to the next intersection, and stop once you're in the middle of it.

4. Ahead of you and to the left, you should see some scaffolding that wraps around the corner of the building. Near the corner of the sidewalk is a lamppost and a green trashcan. Touchdown is sitting on the very top of this trashcan.

Good luck! :) Face in the same direction as traffic and walk down to the first intersection.

Turn left - you now have a row of bikes on your right up ahead. Walk to the next intersection. 

Turn left once more.  There is a bright blue awning with white stripes on your left. Walk down to the end of the block.

Turn left one last time. You'll have a store with a long green and orange stripe awning on your right. Walk down to the final intersection.

Ahead on your right is a pole holding a stop light and street signs. Touchdown is on top of the wastebasket at the base of this pole.
 Align yourself so that the scaffolding is on your left. Head up to the first intersection to make a left. There should be a red lane on your right after you make the turn. Head up a few steps until you're in front of a construction machine on your left. If you look at the flat back area behind the operator cab, there's a logo. Touchdown is sitting on that logo. If you look around you should notice all the vehicles heading in one direction. Follow the road going in that direction till you reach an intersection. At the intersection, make a left turn passing the sandwich shop on your right. Up ahead you should notice a rectangle sign with red letters but don't go pass it. To the left of it is a dark blue awning extending out. The touchdown is sitting on top of it in the center. Turn around until a silver car is in front of you. Go down that street and take a left. Once you turn left there should now be a red and black bus on the left parked. Keep going down that road and turn on your first left down the street with the construction cones in front of the street. Go down until you see the first police car on your right. The bear is on the headlight of the police car. Go with traffic flow with the park on your left. Turn left at the corner. 

Go down this road, through the 3-way intersection. Go to the next full intersection and turn left. When you turn the park is still on your left and trees have wood around them. Barriers are on your right.

Stop before the end of the barriers where you see the porta potty. Turn to your left and there are two large statues on the front of a large archway. Touchdown is on top of the hat of the left statue.

 Align yourself with the scaffolding on your left, and the red and black awnings on your right. Head down to the first intersection and make a left, then another left at the next intersection.

On your right, you should see a pink small building with a mural on it. Pass it a little, and you'll see a black garbage bin behind it. Touchdown is on top of the trash bin. Position yourself so the playground is on your right and the court is on your left.
Travel all the way down this block and cross over the next intersection you get to.
Very shortly after crossing over you will see a red fire hydrant with a silver cap on the left side.
The touchdown is the tip of the silver cap.
 Face the same direction of the cars and make a left at the opening in the lanes where you see the green sign on your left. This will take you to the left lane. The lane you were on will now be on your right. Continue down the road and make a left at the first traffic light. On your right, there will now be a blue awning followed by a green one then a red one. Look forward, go toward the skyline, passing the fenced playground on your right and stop when you pass the first traffic light but are still in the middle of the intersection. On your right, there will be three concrete pots with dead looking plants. Touchdown will be on the pot closest to you, that has the green paint mark on it. You're beginning right next to an intersection.  Turn so you're facing that intersection, move into the intersection, and turn left.  Go one short block to the next intersection and turn left.  Your destination is a ways down this block (no more turns).  You'll first pass some construction scaffolding on your left on this block.  After all the construction on the left you'll see a building with lots of black flags hanging off of it (on your left).  After the black flag building, the next building on your left has is vacant and has the security gate pulled down over the main doors/windows.  Stop when you're even with this closed security gate.  Just to the left of the closed security gate is a little red fire hydrant or water hookup pipe sticking out of the sidewalk (right near the base of the building).  The bear is on top of that red pipe. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic away from the intersection.
You should see scaffolding ahead on the right.
Turn left at the next intersection.
When you do you'll see scaffolding on the entire block on the right side.
When you get close to the next intersection, look left and you should see a set of boxes that are orange, green, green and then red.  Touchdown is on the orange box. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  The national flag will be up ahead on the left and some scaffolding on the right.  Keep going past the blue bikes on the left to the intersection and turn right.  A long row of scaffolding will be on your left when you do.
Head forward and turn right at the next intersection.  You should see a red awning down the street jutting out of the building.
Go until you're just past the food cart on your left and you should see a pole with three signs on it.  Touchdown is on the red sign at the top.
 Position yourself so the store with a green canopy is on your left. Head forward down the road towards the next intersection. Turn right, if you are facing the correct direction a green trash truck should be on your left. Move forward into the next intersection. On your left side should be a concrete divider and some shipping containers. On your right side are some shops and buildings with fire escapes. There is a post with a green sign and a red sign to your right. Touchdown is on top of the red sign. Get turned around so you are heading the same direction as traffic. Go to the intersection and make a right. Once you are turned there should be a mirrored kind of building on your right side and green covered scaffolding on your left side. Head down this long block the same direction as traffic. You will pass a yellow food truck parked on the left as you go. You will see a line of blue bikes on the left just past that truck. Before you get to the intersection come to a stop. On the right side there is a blue and white umbrella over a food cart. There is a  black and silver fire hydrant right before that. You should be right next to it as you look that way. Touchdown is on top of that hydrant.  Go with cars to block's end and then right. Go right at the light.  

STOP when the first set of four red doors under an arch is directly at your right, so you can turn right and face them straight on.  

Touchdown is sitting on the keystone of the arch, above the red panels, above the red doors. Rotate to face the nearest intersection, you will be facing forward with the forward flow of traffic.

Move forward through this nearest intersection, you will not have an opportunity to turn anyway.

Proceed to the next intersection.
Proceed forward through the intersection.

Proceed to the next intersection.

Notice the lanes of traffic to your left across the roadway median, your goal is to enter these lanes of traffic at the next intersection.

Turn left to perform a U turn at the intersection.
You are now travelling in the opposite direction of your previous direction of travel.

Proceed to the next intersection.
Move forward through the intersection; you will not have the opportunity to turn.

Proceed forward a short distance.

Look to your right, and see a long line of parked buses.
When you are aligned with the bus second to the front of this line of buses, stop.

You will notice the cartoon image of a lion's face on the bus. The bear is sitting in the middle of the lion's face Get turned so the yellow and white construction barriers are on your right side. Go straight down this long block. At the first intersection make a right turn. Once you have turned there will be stores on the corners with red awnings on both your left and your right. Go straight one block. Go a little bit in the intersection and come to a stop. Ahead of you on the right corner there are 2 red boxes and a bag of trash on the ground between those and the pole. Touchdown is on top of the first red box. From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  You should see a small black metal fence and some trees on the median to your left.  It will be a long straight walk, so just make sure that the median is always on your left.  

Go straight through the first intersection you come to, and keep walking straight.  You will soon see a small brick building, with graffiti, in the median on your left.  Walk past it and then stop in the intersection.   

In the intersection, turn to your right, so that you see a small shop with a bright yellow sign on the sidewalk to your right.  Walk down this road, past a parked bus.  

When you reach the next intersection, turn to your right, and take a step onto the narrow street, where you should see an empty lot on your right behind a chain link fence.  Stop, and look around.  

On your left, there will be a red canopy over a storefront with white lettering on it.  Above that canopy is a vertical red sign, with yellow characters.  Touchdown the Bear is sitting right at the very top of that sign. Orient yourself with the trashcan and trash to your right. Go straight and take a right at the first intersection, the one with the green awning to the right. Go straight until you reach some scaffolding with orange and white barrier on the right. Proceed a little bit further until you see a green chair on the right, which is where touchdown is sitting. Turn so the construction fencing is on your right and the intersection is right ahead of you.  Move forward and go straight through the intersection.  At the next intersection you come to, turn left.  Go one short block to the next intersection, and turn left again.  You'll be on a street with parking lot spaces on either side.  Go ahead to the next intersection, and stop when you've just passed over the crosswalk (crosswalk is just behind you and you're not standing on it anymore).  Look ahead of you to the corner on the right.  There is a green trash can right by the light/sign post.  Further to the right is a set of three trash and recycling cans.  The bear is on the right-most one of those (with the blue lid).   With construction to your right, go straight until reaching an intersection with three trash cans on the right. Turn right and go straight; take another right when you see a bland building with tricolor flags ahead. Go ahead and stop when you see a white door with diamond windows and a yellow base. Touchdown is on the base. Turn and go in the same direction of the traffic. Turn left at intersection. There will be an orange then a burgundy awning on the right. Turn left at intersection. Black awnings on the right. Before you get to the intersection there will be a tan building with brown doors on the right. Touchdown is sitting on the first door handle.  Align yourself with the flow of traffic. Follow this road down until the intersection,make one step to the left, and then find the lady with the red bag and white headphones looking at her phone, crossing the street. Touchdown is on her red bag. Turn and go in the same direction as traffic. Go right at the end of the street. You will pass a yellow sign with a man on it on the building ahead on your right. Go left at the next intersection. At the upcoming intersection, see a grey brick building on the far left intersection corner with a red door.  You are on the right path. Go straight through this intersection.  At the next intersection, go left. As soon as you turn onto the street, turn to face the street corner to your right. See a manhole cover with a painted red rectangle right at the corner of the sidewalk in front of you. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of that manhole cover. Turn so the fenced in track/grass area is to your left. There is construction on the right. 

Go past the first 3-way intersection. Go past the second 3-way intersection. Turn left at the third 3-way intersection. They are all very close together. When you turn there is a median to your left and construction walls and fences to your right. Go to the next corner and turn left. Then go to the next intersection that's right there, turn right, and stop. Look to your right and there is a trashcan on the corner that Touchdown is sitting on top of.



 Orient yourself so the empty fenced in lot is on your left and you're facing the same direction the cars are travelling.  Walk forward to the intersection.  Turn right, so the building with a blue awning is on your right and black awning is on your left.  Travel down this road until the next intersection.  Turn right and travel down this road, there should be two grey planter boxes in front of the building on the right.  You'll pass a multi-level parking garage on your right as you travel down the road.  At the intersection, turn right so you are following traffic and look for a small blue awning on your left.  It has some white in the center of it, and it's just before the large green awning on scaffolding.  Touchdown is on the white part of the blue awning. Face the same direction as the traffic, with the gray building on your right, go forward and make a left at the intersection. 
Go toward the billboards and make your last left at the intersection. 
Stop right before you pass the second red and white awning on your left. Touchdown is at the top of the second awning. Orient yourself so the large metal bridge is behind you.  Walk forward.  Keep going straight, following the curve in the road.  Pass the park on your left, continuing straight until you run out of road and have to make a turn.  Turn right.  Go forward between the two large brick apartment buildings, past the courtyards for those buildings and keep going until you just come even with the next buildings.  On the right side, you'll see a tall street light.  Touchdown is on top of the street light housing, the part that hangs over the road. Orient yourself to follow the flow of traffic and turn right at the second intersection. Continue forward and then stop after you go straight through the next intersection. There should be a parking garage ahead to your right. The touchdown is the red circle under the white letters.   Go straight in the direction the traffic is going and make a left at the first traffic light. You're going to go under the overpass and make a quick left at the light. The highway will be on your left. Keep going straight until you pass the second handball court in the park on your right. After you pass the second wall for the handball court there will be a pole with a street name and an arrow. Touchdown is on the logo of the white sign underneath those signs. Move with the flow of traffic, past the neon yellow sign on your right, followed by a metro entrance with green railings. At the first intersection, move straight through it. Stop just after the intersection. On your right is a black fire hydrant. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant. Turn so scaffolding is on your right. Go with traffic flow, going through the 3-way option, onto the corner just past the blue rental bikes on the left and turn right. 

Go with traffic flow through the first full intersection and toward the next. You will notice orange cones and a blacked out sign and barriers up ahead to your left. Don't go that far, but turn to find the store with purple lettering on your right. Touchdown is dotting the first i of the business name. Follow traffic to the end of the street, where there'll be a stop sign to your right and cars parked in front of you.  Go left, towards the overpass. Go right when you reach it; you now have the bridge on your left. Go right as soon as you can.  Stop when the ornate wall is to your right, and you can face right, and be staring at a red hydrant with a yellow cap between two red bollards with yellow tops.

Touchdown is atop the hydrant. Face the direction of the traffic, go straight until you get to the first traffic light and make a right. Go straight and make another right at the traffic light. Go down that street and make a right at the light. Go straight and stop before you get to the traffic light. On your right, touchdown will be on the ground to the right of the green pole. Turn so that you are facing the tunnel entrance, no turns on this route.
Speed right through the tunnel.
 When you come outside  on the other end start paying attention.
Continue straight ahead. DO NOT BEAR LEFT.

And head towards the next tunnel staying between the orange cones.

Leave those cones behind you and start looking to the  left.
 see a booth to the left and pass it, see a stack of orange cones on the left on the sidewalk and pass them and Stop.

And then  see a stack of orange cones on the street, left side, and our favorite teddy bear is sitting on top.



 Turn around, and align yourself so that the red awning shop is on your left, heading down a small street with a forklift.

Ignore the first intersection you come across. At the next intersection, you want to make a back left. Turn around and head down this street.

Ignore the intersection and keep heading straight, on your left, stop when you see a red sign, next to a blue sign, above the storefronts. You should see a stack of boxes of merchandise sitting outside. To the left and below the red sign, there is a parking meter. You'll find touchdown on the blue strip facing you . Turn so that you are travelling with traffic and the barrier is on the left. Move down the block until you reach the first intersection. Take a right. As you go, watch the left side of the road. You will see a large building with silverish bricks on the top floor and lime green on the bottom floor. When you reach the end of this building stop. You should see a fenced in area just passed the building.  On the black fence there is a pink banner. The Touchdown is directly on the banner in the center.  Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Take your first left.  You will follow this road for a while.  Go through 2 intersections, and stop in the 3rd.  Backup 1 step and look to the right.  There is a blue mailbox on the right.  The bear is on top.   Head down the street with traffic past the big brown delivery truck parked on the left.
At the next intersection where there is a store with a green awning take a left, and head down that street.
At the first intersection with the store with the red awning, take a left down that street.
Touchdown is sitting on top of a gray sedan on the left side of the street. It is parked right behind a white work truck that is behind a yellow piece of heavy equipment.

 Turn so the black construction is on your left, travel forward a very short way and turn left, keeping the construction on your left.  Follow this road to the first intersection and turn left.  You'll now have red brick on your left and construction on your right,  Follow this road and turn left again at the intersection.  There willl now be green awnings on your left.  Follow this road until the next intersection and stop when you just enter the first crosswalk.  If you look across the street to the left there is a black flag with a white circle.  Touchdown is in the middle of that white circle on the black flag. Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic There should be scaffolding to your left and a business with a blue sign to your right. Take a left at the first intersection that you meet.

2. When you reorient yourself, there should be an outdoor seating area surrounded by plants to your left. Take another left at the next intersection.

3. Upon reorienting yourself, there should be a large stone building with several columns around it on your left. Take yet another left at the next intersection.

4. The aforementioned stone building should still be on your left and a few umbrellas of different colors should be on your right after reorienting yourself. When you reach the middle of the next intersection, stop. You should be near where you started.

5. Turn to the left until you see a black lamppost/traffic light that's next to the scaffolding. Affixed to the lamppost, there should be a black sign with a white arrow pointing to the right. Touchdown is in the center of this sign.

Good luck! :) Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic on the small street. On your right you will pass the yellow newspaper box as you exit the intersection you started in. Move forward until you are getting close to the next intersection. On your right will be two blue awnings, low to the ground. Touchdown is on the bright blue trash bin closest to the first blue awning. You're on the tiny road going down and following traffic. Go until you hit the big intersection. You're going to need to take a right here and there will be green scaffolding on the left and a brick building with a playground on the right. You will go through the first stop light. You will see a bunch of trees on the left and blue bikes on the right. Go to the next intersection and take a slight right. You should see a worn out red fire hydrant next next to 2 small poles. Your touchdown is the top center.  From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the baseball field, and take a step towards it.  You should now be able to turn left at the T-intersection.  You should see large white letters on the road in front of you as you move forward.  

Walk forward, and go straight through the first intersection you come to.  As soon as you are on the crosswalk on the other side, look to your left, where you should see a greenish-yellow window between two blue windows.  Touchdown is right in the middle of that greenish-yellow window. Orient with traffic and turn left at the intersection. Turn left at the next intersection as well. Stop just before the crosswalk of the next intersection. There is a white sign in a center median of the road, and Touchdown is centered on it. Go with the flow of traffic to the first intersection and turn right. You'll have a red and orange striped awning to your right.  Go straight through the next intersection.  You'll turn right at the next light.  Your business to your left has a neon green logo and you're going against the flow of traffic.   Go down this street, you'll pass some scaffolding on your right.  A few doors down there will be a red tall red gate that has a white and blue sign on it.  Touchdown is on this sign.  With the fenced in area on your left and the blue wall on your right, move with the flow of traffic. Pass straight by the first street you get to on your left. When the street you're on ends, turn left. Now, you'll see a bridge up ahead in front of you. 

Turn right on the street immediately before the bridge. Once you turn, the bridge will be on your left. Turn right at the first street you get to. There will be a white cement and red brick wall on your right and park benches up ahead on your left after you turn. Those benches are in front of a small park. Before you reach the benches, you'll see an opening in the fencing, which is the entry to the park. There's a rusted trash can at the entrance of the park. Touchdown is sitting on the ground in front of the trash can.  Align yourself with the striped awning and red lettering ahead on your right. Head down the small street with this on your right.

you'll head up this street until the first intersection to make a right. There should be a yellow, then orange, then green awning one after another, make another right at the next intersection.

You'll head all the way down to almost the next intersection. Stop in front of the flower market on your left in front of the intersection. Touchdown will be sitting on the hydrant tip. With the black awning on your left and the brick building on your right, make a right at the first intersection. There will now be a green awning on your right with white letters. Pass it and follow the traffic, making your last right at the intersection, with the scaffolding on your right. Passing the first scaffolding on your right, the brick building with the cross on your left and stop after passing the two white buildings on your left. On your left, Touchdown will be in front of the air conditioner that is on the first floor window of the brown, brick building to the right of the white building. You are on a one way road, go with the flow of traffic. At the next intersection, make a left, you will have lighted decorations on both sides of you. Go to the next intersection and make another left, you will have a light colored building on your right and lighted trees to your left. Continue straight. On your left are trees decorated with small lights all over them, stop at the second from the last one. On your left will be a black with red accent building and your right will be the entrance to an all glass front building. In between the last two lighted trees on your left is a square pole with a blue stripe at the top, touchdown is at the top of this pole.  Go with traffic to the light and then left. Go left again at the next light. An ultra-white building with silver bollards on the sidewalk will be to your right.

Go down the block until you're about in the middle of the myriad openings in a building to your left, all of which will have yellow arrows painted on the asphalt.  The scaffolding over the building on your right will have just stopped, and you'll be just past a yellow bit before the blue bit of the tarp. 

From this precise position, look forward and left.  There's a black circle on white framing around a door.  Touchdown is in the circle. Follow the direction of the traffic to the next intersection. You are at the right intersection when you see on your left there is a store with grey and orange exterior, the name of the store is three letters. On your right is a store sign with white background and red letters. Turn left at this intersection. Then you will see a white truck on the side of road , it is a white truck with 6 blue letters showing the company name. go straight. When you reach the intersection, turn left. You should see the delivery truck with blue/orange letter on the back of the truck in front of you. On the right side, there is a store sign with white background and red letters in their sign. There is also a green box with white letters on that sign. The touchdown is in the middle of that green box area. Turn yourself so that the building with the red awning is on your right. Go straight on this road. Go to the first intersection and make a right turn. There will be a red brick building with ivy and a talk black metal fence on your left. Go until you get to the first traffic light. Make a right turn. Go down this road until you come to the first traffic light, make another right turn. Follow this street. You will see an intersection. Begin to go through this intersection. On your left you will see two pay phones. Touchdown is sitting on top of the first pay phone.  Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic, and head to the nearest intersection.  Turn left.  Head through ally to the next intersection, turn left.  Head into the next intersection (Make sure you can see all 4 arrows) and look to the right corner.  There is a red door with a window.  Bear is in the window.   From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing a series of large, electronic screens.  There should be a black and silver bus parked on the right just in front of you.  

Walk forward, ignore your first chance to turn left-or-right onto the sidewalks, but stop in the middle of the large intersection, just before you enter the street with orange umbrellas.  Turn to your right in this intersection and walk down the wide one-way street toward a bright pink billboard ahead in the distance.  

Stop in the first intersection you come to, and turn to your right, so that you walk down a narrow road.  This street will have a large bright green sign on your left (with a yellow rubber duck and teddy bear) and a large purple sign on the shop to your right.  Walk between these two signs.  You should see a yellow and black marquee and banner on the building to your left, and a blue and yellow umbrella on your right.  

After you pass the yellow and black marquee, continue straight down the street.  Do not step to the right under the canopy, just stay on the road.  You should pass some orange and white striped awnings and fences on your left. 

Keep going straight, and pass a building with three white stone arches on the left.  

A little further along, you will see a long red wall on your right.  Walk to the end of this wall, and then look for a black fire hydrant between two short orange poles on the right-hand sidewalk.  

Touchdown is sitting right on top of this hydrant. Turn to face with traffic, there will be a green fence across the intersection. Cross the street, then go forward until the last flower pot on the right side of the road, construction on the left. There is a bicycle next to the flowers, with a basket on the front. Touchdown is in the basket. From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  The parked truck with the blue metal structures should be on your right.  Walk forward, and stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to.  

Turn to your left in the intersection, and walk between a gray walled building and a building with red bricks on top of stone columns.  You should then pass a row of blue bicycles.  

Walk straight down this street, and then take a left at the next intersection.  You should now pass between a large red brick building on the right, and a row of stores on the left, all with red lettering.  Walk forward, and stop in the middle of the next intersection you come to.  

At this intersection, turn left, and walk down a road that is made up of bricks.  You should pass a doorway with three decorative columns on your left.  Keep walking straight down the brick road until you come to an intersection with traffic lights.  

Stop in the middle of this intersection and look ahead of you for a black fire hydrant with a silver cap on the right-hand sidewalk.  Touchdown is sitting on top of that hydrant. Align yourself so the yellow awning after the black one is on your right. You'll head up with the flow of traffic to the first intersection to make a right. Head down until you reach the end of the yellow and white striped poles in the middle of the road. You should see two small yellow poles right after. Touchdown is sitting on the tip of the yellow pole closest to you. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Go forward for a ways. Turn right at the next intersection.
When you turn right you should see two blue boxes side by side on the left next to a phone booth.
Go forward and turn right at the next intersection.  You should see a bright orange side on your left once you turn.
Go forward until you're about to get to the black awning that juts out.
Touchdown is on the center point of the front of the awning. Go WITH traffic, under the passenger bridge between buildings, straight through the 3-way intersection, and LEFT at the light. You should be on a street with a park on both sides. Go STRAIGHT THROUGH the next light.

STOP just before the row of white bollards with two grey stripes on your left and the  hydrant between two pipes on your right. ROTATE RIGHT.  You should be facing directly a grey parking meter with a blue band at the top.

FIND Touchdown atop parking meter. Stand so that you are facing the fenced park area with trees straight ahead of you, and take a right. Now you should be moving downhill on the right side of the road. At the first light, you need to take a right turn. There should be a red awning on your left, and some construction fences on your right. Move forward with traffic, as the road curves left, and continue straight through the next 2 intersections. 
Now you should have a green wall on your left, and blue bricks on your right. When you reach the dead end, turn left. Move ahead until on your left is a small parking area with open fences. Touchdown is in the middle of the blue awning right after the parking lot. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  There will be a jutting awning on each side of the road up ahead.  The road you are looking for is to the right of the road with the construction barriers.
Head straight down this road and turn right at the next intersection.
You should see scaffolding ahead on both sides of you.
Turn right at the next intersection as well.
You should see a small green awning on your right and a couple flags ahead, also on the right.  Head into the intersection.  On the near side before you get to the median you should see a white sign with black text on it on a pole in the median on the right.  Touchdown is hiding on this sign.


 Go in the direction that has two red trucks on your right.  Turn left at the first intersection. Then turn left again at the very next intersection. Stop when you see a red awning with Chinese lettering to your right. Turn to your right and you will see a traffic cone with caution tape on the roof of a blue car, touchdown is top of the traffic cone. Look for the large green wall on the right and go in this direction.  Turn right at the first intersection. Scaffolding will be on the left and a large off white building with columns will be on the right. Turn right at the next intersection. Go straight at the next intersection. Look right and stop before the bike with orange handle bars leaning on the green pole, slightly next to the yellow taxi. Touchdown is sitting on the seat of the bike that is in front of you. Face the same direction as traffic and go to the first intersection. Take a right at this intersection. You will see a pharmacy with a gray awning and red and white letters on your right. Go straight to your next intersection and take another right. You will see a small metal fence with trash cans behind it and a long clear awning on your left. Go straight. Pass the place with the planters with orange flowers on the left. Right past that is an area on the left with trees and benches. On the right are homes with tall stairs. There is a blue door. Touchdown is on the handle of this blue door.  face the same direction as the traffic. head straight until you reach the first intersection then take a right. Head straight going past the stone church. keep going straight past the several homes with the small staircases on your left. keep going straight past the green awning being held up by scaffolding. keep heading straight past the brick buildings on your left. there will be a brown building at the end of the brick buildings on your left, keep going past that. go to where the blue bikes are  Touchdown is in front of the first blue bike stall on your right. Turn and go in the direction with the traffic. Go under the bridge.  Turn left at intersection. Turn left at the next intersection.  Go under the bridge. You wil pass scaffolding on the right then an orange and black building. Then a building with yellow on the right. Stop in front of the garage on the right. There are 2 chairs inside on the left. Touchdown is sitting in the white chair.  Turn so you are heading down the street in the same direction as the cards. You will see some orange barrels to the right. Head down this street until you reach an intersection. Here turn right in front of the store with the red sign. Head down this street to the next intersection. Take a right here. Go a short distance until you see a longer white passenger van parked on the right side of the road. Touchdown is sitting above the rear doors on the brake light. With the fabric wall to the left, go straight. Take a left at the intersection. You will get onto a road that curves to the right. Go down the road. go past a dumpster, and past a faux intersection which no cars can turn onto. At the second faux intersection, with a green golf cart to the left, stop. Touchdown is on the orange cone to the left. Turn around and align yourself with the intersection in front of you. Go straight through it, and at the next intersection, take a right. Follow this all the way down to a couple steps before the next intersection, 

On your left, you should see a pink ad on a phone booth. Touchdown is in the middle of the pink ad. Step out into the intersection and walk with the flow of traffic.  Go through the intersection.  At the next intersection (That you can turn right at) turn right.  There will be a building with a lot of glass on your left, and a green building on your right.  Walk against the flow of traffic to the next intersection.  Turn right.  Go through the next intersection and stop.  Look left.  There is a curved pole where a bike could be chained up.  The bear is sitting on top. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the fenced-off area on your  left. Continue moving forward to the next intersection passing some orange and white barriers on your right and some scaffolding on your left. Take a left at the intersection. You should see a bank with a green logo on your right. Continue moving forward towards the next intersection making sure you keep to the left. Take a left at the intersection  and you will be moving against the flow of traffic with a fenced-in area on your left. Go straight through the next intersection and continue moving forward. Stop when you are just before the last tree in the median to your right. Turn slightly right to face the tree and touchdown will be sitting at the base of the tree. Follow the flow of traffic so that the water is on your left Go under the first bridge and there will be a green structure on your right ,in front of that structure there is a light pole with 2 signs on it.Touchdown is under the green sign and on the white sign with arrows on it he is on the left arrow.  Go in the same  direction as traffic, and left at the first intersection. Keep in you lane, but soon go left at the 1st 3 way intersection. Upon turning, there will be a parking lot on your left, and a short wall covered in advertisements to your right. A ways down this street, notice a tall bright yellow building to the left. Pass this building and enter the intersection. Turning to look back at the yellow building, you will find Touchdown sitting on top of the green trashcan on the corner. Go with the flow of traffic. When you reach the intersection, turn right.  There will be a median with trees in it on your left.  Go to the intersection, turn right again.  There will be a yellowish brick building on your left.  Go to the next intersection, turn right again.  There will now be scaffolding on both sides of the street. Go just a bit, and you'll get a chance to turn at at 3-way intersection.  Stop when you see this chance.  Turn to your right.  There is a black wire trash bin next to a light pole.  Touchdown is sitting at the base of this bin.   Orient yourself so that the raised highway is on your right.  Go straight ahead to the first intersection, which will come quickly.  Turn left.  There will be a big empty lot with rocks around it on your left.  Go to the next intersection and turn left again.  Empty lots surrounded by rocks will now be on both sides of you.  Go straight; turn left at the next intersection.  That lot will still be on your left.  Stop immediately when the yellow pedestrian crossing sign is to your very right.  Turn to face that sign.  Touchdown is sitting on the top point of the sign.  Align yourself with the flow of traffic, with the end of the scaffolding on your left. Take a left at the intersection, and go straight through the next. At the second intersection, you should take another left, There should be some pins on the building to your left.

Head down shortly until you hit the first of four black awnings on your right. Touchdown is sitting on the potted plant at the base of the tree under the first awning. Orient yourself in the direction of traffic crossing the intersection. Cross the intersection and go straight until reaching an intersection with a white brick building with a blue awning to the right. Turn right at this intersection. Head straight until reaching the next intersection. Touchdown is sitting in a planter box to the right of the black fire hydrant on the right. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Turn right at the next intersection, which will put the park on your left and the lower part of a wall painted green to your right.
Head down this road, taking the first right you come to.  You will have a brick building on the left and a stone facade building on the right.
Go forward until you're just in front of a pole that has two yellow signs on it.  Touchdown is hiding on the diamond shaped sign on the top. orient yourself with the flow of traffic. proceed to the intersection. once you come to the intersection, turn left. There will be a blue awning on the right. continue towards the intersection. once you come upon the intersection, turn left.There will be an awning that is orange on your right side. proceed down the street. You will come upon a parking garage on your right. shortly after on the left side of the lane there will be a white image on the street.  Touchdown is on the tree on the same side of the street as the image.  Position yourself so that the red brick building is on your right. Make a left at the three way intersection ahead. Make a left at the next intersection, you will now have another red brick building on your right. Make another left at the next intersection. You will see a chicken painted on the wall on your right. Make yet another left at the next intersection. You will have a red brick building on your right and a light colored building with a bright red door on your left. Stop before you get to the crosswalk, on your left is a play area and on your right is a red building with a green and white overhang. Turn to your right and you will see the red building with the green and white over hang, There is a black door with two glass windows on the door, surrounded by other smaller windows. Touchdown is on the door handle.  Face the nearest intersection, with the trees to your left and make a quick right. A gray building with diagonal columns will now be on your left. Continue down this street and make your last right at the intersection. Pass the red awning on your left and stop before reaching the second intersection. At this intersection, you will see a green awning on your left next to a red store sign with blue letters. The building with the red sign will have a golden framed door with a clock above it. Touchdown will be on that clock. Turn until the building with the covered windows that have blue tape around the edges is to your right. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. Green awnings should be to your left and brown awnings should be to your right. Walk forward until you reach the playground on your right. There is a sign with a white leaf on it to the right on the playground fence. Walk past that sign and stop at the next tree. It is not the skinny tree in front of the sign but the one right after the sign. Touchdown is at the base of this tree. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, and head straight. At the first intersection, make a left.

Next intersection, make another left. Go past one intersection, shortly after, you'll see the entrance to a red brick building, with a rounded bus stop outside of it. Touchdown is sitting on the middle of the rounded sign. Turn towards the direction traffic is going, you should see at truck on your right.

Go forward through the intersection and stop when there's a couch on top of a van on your left.

Touchdown is chillin' on the middle of the couch. On your left should be a building with a red awning with white letters and multicolored Chinese characters. On your right there is green scaffolding. Go straight to the first intersection and make a right. Reach the first intersection you went too far. However before you get to the intersection on your right you will see a building with what appears to be security gates closed over the doors. The second one closest to you from the corner has a small white box in the corner touchdown is sitting directly in front of that. Turn so you will be moving with the flow of traffic. There is a shop with red and white striped awning to your left.

Walk to the end of the block and turn right. Immediately to your right are some signs alternating pink and blue. Walk down this road until the next intersection.

Walk right. As you walk, start paying attention to your left. There will be a building with a series of arches along the ground floor. Just past that is scaffolding, and then a white sign with red lettering on a pole. Touchdown is on the right side of that sing. Turn around so that the small chain link fence is on your left and the yellow columns are on your right. 

Walk forward and out into the street, and then stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to.  

Turn to your right, so that the red and white awning is on your left, and the parked semi-trucks up ahead are on your right.  Walk forward, but make sure that the dark green bridge with the green-and-white sign stays in front of you.  
If you cannot see the bridge, you may need to go back and try again.

Walk forward and stop at the intersection under that green bridge.  
Turn to your right, and walk toward the two orange diamond-shaped signs.  

Keep going straight, passing two sets of yellow columns on your right.  

When you get to the very last yellow column, stop and look up.  On your right is a pole with one yellow diamond sign on top of an orange diamond sign.  Touchdown the Bear is on top of the highest point on the yellow sign.  Follow traffic to the light and go left, and then go left again at the next light.  When you pass the second black overhead door on your left with graffiti, rotate right.  You should be looking at a red building, with 5 round trash cans behind fencing in front of you.  Touchdown is sitting on the bottom rung of the reddish brown fire escape ladder  above the leftmost one. Go with traffic with the green scaffolding on the right and large green wall on the left.
Turn left at the first intersection. Trees with Xmas lights on them on the left.
Turn left again at the next intersection. Green scaffolding on the right. 
Go straight at the next intersection and stop just before the crosswalk.
On the right corner there is a large pile of cardboard boxes next to a trash can. Touchdown is sitting on top of the trash can.

 Turn and go with the flow of traffic and at the first light turn right.At the third traffic light turn right. Just past the bank on your right there is a white building with glass doors,Touchdown is sitting next to the center of those doors on the ground. Look down the street that has the red awning with a black sign and white letters on it to your right. Move forward, passing the school crossing sign and make a right at the traffic light. Pass the blue awnings with pink letters and make your last right at the intersection, with the gray building on your right. Stop before completely passing that gray building, right before reaching it's glass doors You will see two black doors to the right of the glass doors. Touchdown will be on the ground in front of the first black door closest to you. Follow this road down the correct way. There will be fencing and orange barrels on your right side. You'll be approaching a white arch. Keep going as the road curves and you pass the arch. Stay straight then turn to the left as it curves around. You'll have a tall fenced area on your left and the median is on your right with small trees. Go only a very short distance. Stop just as you are almost to the first tree on the left side of the road that has a metal short fence around it. You should be almost right next to a black fire hydrant. Touchdown is on that hydrant.  Follow traffic and go left at the intersection.  Go left again at the next one.

Go left again when you reach another intersection and take a few steps until the bus waiting area is to your right, and a long row of blue bikes in front of scaffolding is to your left.  Turn to face the bus waiting area on your right.

Touchdown is sitting precisely in the middle of the bench between the two metal dividers.

 Turn and walk in the same direction as traffic. Pass under multiple overhead beams and through a tunnel like structure.  Once through the tunnel, go ahead a very short distance. Paying attention to the green/gray bridges on both sides of you, notice that it is divided in sections by posts. Turn and face the sections on your right. Position yourself so that you are in the middle of the 3rd section from the start of them on your left. There should be a square of white graffiti on the bridge's left part of this section. Touchdown is hiding right in the very center of that graffiti.  Walk down the street so the green awning is on you right-hand side.
You'll pass some colorful graffiti on your left-hand side, then a row of black trash bags, also on your right.
At the intersection, take a right.There will a brick red building with fire escapes on your left-hand side.
Continue down the street, passing the line of construction cones on your right.
At the intersection, take a right. The side of building now your left has no windows.
Walk until you see basketball courts on your left-hand side. 
Touchdown is in the large fork of the tree in front of the basketball courts. Head in the direction of traffic and take the first left. Follow that street to the intersection and take another left. Turn left at the corner with all the bushes. You kind of have to back into the left once you've passed the turn. Go straight until you pass the bright yellow sign and are just beside the delivery van. There will be a red sign in front of you and to the left. Touchdown is in the middle of that sign. Follow the traffic and make a right at the traffic light. There will be a white animal face to your right, continue down that street and make a right at the traffic light. Touchdown will be on top of the black garbage can near the crosswalk sign to your left. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the store with the blue awning ahead to your left and the bus stop on the right side of the road. Continue forward to the nearby intersection and take a right. You should see a red fire hydrant in front of you to the right. Continue forward down this road until you reach the next intersection and go straight. You should see a bridge and an intersection just ahead of you. Move to the intersection and take a right. The entrance to a parking garage will be on your right and rows of diagonally parked vehicles will be on your left and right in front of you. Continue forward going straight past the three-way intersection. Continue moving forward and take a right at the next intersection. Stop and turn to your left and you will see it light pole with a green box attached to it. Touchdown is sitting at the base of the light pole. Head with traffic down the street. It'll have you make a right turn in to another street, and forward a few steps. When the prompt comes, you'll want to go back left, and then continue left. You should see a row of blue bikes on your left if you've made it successfully. At the next intersection, make another left. Stop when you get to the entrance of a parking lot with scaffolding above it. Touchdown is on the yellow symbol on the sign outside of the parking. Align yourself with traffic and move forward to the intersection. Take a left at the intersection. Move forward to the next intersection and take another left. Move forward on this road. There will be trees with lights on y our right. Move forward until you see a large building on your left with a black awning and yellow writing. Touchdown is on the symbol on the front of the awning. Align yourself with the scaffolding on your right. Head to the intersection and make a left, then another left shortly after. go straight when you see a right turn, and a few steps down, you'll see a silver and brown sign on the scaffolding that starts. Stop when you see a ladder on the scaffolding. Touchdown is sitting on the traffic cone at the base of the ladder. Orient yourself with traffic. Proceed forward. At the first intersection, turn right. At the next intersection, turn right again. Proceed forward. Stop when you pass three buses on the right. On the left should be a brown mailbox with graffiti. Touchdown is on top of it. With the blue grey building to your right go to the stop sign that is near and turn left. Go to the next traffic light and turn right.  There will be a playground to your right. Go straight through the next stoplight and turn right at the next light.  There will be a small park to your right with an iron fence.  Go to the next intersection and look to your left.  There will be an arched black door.  Touchdown is on the handle of the door.  With the blue awning with white text on the left, go forward, thru the first light. Go right at the next.  

Stop on the crosswalk, when there is a black gate between the hedgerow to the left.  Ahead to the left is a long green entry canopy. Rotate far right, looking slightly backwards.  

Touchdown is centered atop the small blue mailbox to the left of the two larger olive ones. Go in the direction with the green roof and yellow columns to your right. Take a left at the intersection. Take another left at the next intersection. Go straight. There is a picture of a building on a green wall to the left. There are tires to the right. Touchdown is sitting on the stack of six tires, the closest stack to you. Position yourself so you are following the traffic direction. Go to the intersection. Then turn right. Now you are following traffic again. Go straight. Till you reach the next intersection. You should see a store with red banner and white writing ahead of you on the right. And a store with three red letter name on the left side. Now go into the middle of the intersection, turn around and face the way you came from. Now on your right side there is a blue mailbox next to a trash can. The touchdown is on the top of that mailbox.  Orient yourself so all the store fronts are on your right and the side of a brick building with lots of windows and no doors is on your left.  Walk down to the intersection and turn left.  Walk down to the next intersection, and turn left when you can.  You'll teleport a bit, but that's ok, as long as your turn left when you're facing a brick wall.  Once you turn and start walking forward, you'll jump back to where you should be and continue down that road until the next intersection.  Turn left and walk down to the next intersection.  Turn left a last time, and stop out of intersection and stop.  Look to your left and find the end of the green awning with white letters on it.  Touchdown is sitting on the top corner at the very end of the awning.   Go in the same direction as traffic.  There will be some sort of sports rink on your left.  Move forward to the first intersection.  Turn left.  There will be a park with kids playground equipment on your right.  Move forward slightly until you see an opportunity to turn left.  Turn left here.  There will be a grassy park to your left and some trees and bushes in a small park on your right.  Move forward until you come to the T intersection.  Turn back around to your left.  There is a pole on the sidewalk that is painted red with gold on top.  TOuchdown is sitting on top of this pole.   Move to the intersection directly in front of you and go left.

Moving with traffic flow, go through the first intersection but turn left at the second. When you turn there will be scaffolding on your left and a tan brick building on your right with red signs in the windows.

Go down this street to the next intersection and turn left. There will be a brick building to your left and scaffolding to your right. Watch on your left for a motorcycle parked in front of the brick building on the left. Touchdown is sitting on the seat waiting to go for a ride. 

 Turn so you are going with the traffic on this one way street. There will be a mural on the wall to your right. Head up to the intersection and take a right. Go through the first intersection you come to. Keep going straight. Go through the next intersection as well. Go straight until you come to the next intersection. Make a U Turn at this intersection. Go down the street through 2 intersections. Stop midway through the third intersection. If you look to the right you will see a median with a row of trees and a bike lane. On the right side of the median is a white square where you would wait to cross the street. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of that.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
A ways down you should see scaffolding ahead on the right.
Turn right at the next intersection right after the subway entrances.
When you do you'll see trash bags next to some blue mail boxes.  Go forward here.

Stop right before the next intersection and look to your right.  You'll see another mailbox.  Touchdown is on the logo on this one.
 Align yourself with traffic and take a right at the intersection. Continue down this road passing the first intersection you come to. At the second intersection take a right. Move down this road which curves to the right. Slightly after the bend you will see a green door and awning. Touchdown is on the numbers on the front of the awning.  Follow traffic and go through the first light, and make a left at the next.  Again, go through the first light, but stop just before the next one.  Rotate right, to look at the final building on the corner of the block, which has grey blocks and a siamese connector with two yellow caps. To the right of that is a tall square dark grey planter with a bush in it.

Touchdown sits atop the bush. Hello. Please orient yourself with the flow of traffic. To your left will be a white building with rounded arch windows.

Walk forward to the four-way intersection ahead. Turn right. 

Continue straight until you reach the next four-way intersection. 
Go straight through it.

You will encounter a three-way turn next. Ignore it and continue straight. There will be a green wall with signs to your left at the intersection. 

Walk forward to the next four-way intersection. Turn right. 

There will be scaffolding with green awning to your right. Continue straight. As you approach the intersection, it will zoom your forward. 

You will be facing a planter in a median. Orient yourself to the left so that a large green wall with scaffolding will be on your left. You will be facing against the flow of traffic. 

Walk forward very slightly and stop here. Look ahead on your left. There is a square red sign on the awning of the scaffolding. 

Touchdown will be on the red sign in the center. Good luck!  Orient yourself to follow the flow of traffic and turn left. Go forward and turn left at the next intersection. Go forward and turn left at the next intersection (there should be a black van ahead and to your left). Once you turn go straight until you see a bus ahead and to your right. There will be a large path area on your right as well. The touchdown is the yellow pedestrian sign near the bus.  Align yourself with the parked cars heading in to the flow of traffic. You should see a green awning on your left, and a red one on your right with a green one further down. Head down this street and make a left. Make another left shortly after and you should be in front of some construction on your left. Move down to the intersection and make a final left.

At the third awning on your left, it should be brown with a ramp in front of it. There's a hanging sign  underneath the awning, touchdown is in the middle of it. Orient yourself against traffic and move forward until you see a road stop ahead of you. Touchdown is in the left window of the building in the middle of the stop. Go with traffic, there is a building with a red awning and books on the sidewalk to the left, go to the intersection and take a left. There will be multiple newspaper stand boxes to your left, go to the next intersection. Take a left, the building on your left has a sign with an animal holding a bowl. At the next intersection you will take another left, there is a building with striped awnings over the windows to the left, On your right down this street is a fire hydrant, the bear is on the hydrant With traffic, go to the light and right.  Go right again at the next light, and go all the way to the next one, stopping just at the crosswalk before entering the intersection.

If you rotate left, you should be facing a domed red and white entry canopy head on.  Rotate right until you see, to the left of a light green-yellow umbrella, a red call box. Touchdown sits atop it. The red doors should be on your right. Head straight down this road. Make a right turn. Once you are turned there is a green fence to your right. Keep straight on this road. When you get to the intersection keep going straight. Follow the road as it curves to the right. Look on the building to your right. At the far end is a large brown square. Go forward until you are almost to it then stop. It should still be slightly ahead of you on the right. Touchdown is on the lower corner closest to you.  Orient yourself in which the blue scaffolding is on your right. Head toward the flow of traffic till you arrive at an intersection. Make a left turn at the intersection and continue forward. There should be a road block barricade on your right. Continue forward till you reach an intersection and make a left turn. Continue forward, passing the scaffolding and awnings along the way. Eventually you should come across a traffic light and notice a red motorcycle on your right. You should be in a position where there is a trash can on your right but you haven't pass it. The touch down is sitting on top of the trash can. Align yourself with the flow of traffic. The blue bags on the sidewalk should be on your right. Head up the street to the scaffolding.

Stop when you reach a loading dock with a green bin inside of it, in the middle of the scaffolding. On the other side should be a black chair near some trash bags. Touchdown is sitting in the chair. Align yourself so the red lane under you is slightly to your left. You want to veer left here down the side road. You'll head straight through the first intersection, and at the second, make a right, then another immediate right, making a u-turn. When you reach almost the middle of the next intersection, look to your left for a gavel on an orange background at, posted on a phone booth. Touchdown is in the middle of the ad. Follow traffic down the street where the red callbox is to your right and the green mailbox near a hydrant in front of the white brick building is to your left.

Towards the end of the block, there is a red brick building with two green awnings on the left opposite doors on the white building across the street on the right. Go past them and the small enclosure with coiled barbwire fencing above it and rotate left.  You should be staring at 5 windows with black framing.  There is an air conditioner above the middle one, in the second story window.

Touchdown is affixed to the grill of the air conditioner in the middle second story window. Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Move straight ahead to the first intersection and turn left. Continue straight, passing through one intersection. At the second, turn left.

Move straight until you are at the next intersection. Ahead on your left is a row of orange barriers. Touchdown is on the corner one. Turn so you are facing the same direction that that cars are driving down this one-way street.  Drive down this road and then turn left at the first intersection.  The red brick building should still be on your left.  Travel to the next intersection and turn left again.  The red brick building is still on your left.  Travel down this road, watching for a lot of construction on your left.  Once you pass the orange and white barriers on the left, look to your right and you will see three trees.  To the left of the tree in the middle is a parking meter with a blue stripe.  Touchdown is sitting on top of that parking machine. Turn so the barrier in the middle is non your left, move forward a little and turn right as soon as you can.  You'll see a blue awning on your left and a green one on your right.  Follow this road, pass the intersection ahead and turn right at the next one.  There will be a grey building with a black iron fence on your left now.  Follow this road and turn right at the next intersection.  You'll have green construction on your right now.  Follow this road, through the intersection and stop when you are about to enter the large intersection ahead.  Look to the area in the middle on the right that splits the road.  There is a single lamp post in the middle with metallic round rings near the top and a pointed peak.  Touchdown is on top of that lamp post. Orient yourself so you are moving with traffic. Move ahead to that first, close intersection and take a right turn. You should now be on the right side of the road, still moving with traffic, facing a stoplight intersection close ahead. Move straight through that intersection. You will now have  on your right a red awning with yellow and white writing.

Continue ahead until the next intersection, and turn left. The big green awning with white writing will be on your right. Now move ahead down this narrow road until you reach an intersection. Move straight through the intersection and stop. Face left, and there is a bike chained to a green pole. Touchdown is on the bike seat. Orient yourself with traffic and proceed. Turn left at the first light. Proceed through two stoplights. Stop just before entering the third intersection. Down the road to the left should be a ladder with a cone at its bottom. Touchdown is on the cone. Go in the same direction as traffic.  Move forward to the first intersection.  Turn right.  There will be food vendors on either side of the street. The umbrellas over the food stand on the right sides are blue and yellow.  Go down this street.  At the stoplight turn right  There will be a skyscraper with lots of windows and metal on your right.  As you go down the street, you'll see a bus stop on your right right away.  Stop right after you pass this bus stop.  On your right will be a tree next to the bus stop.  Touchdown is sitting at the base of this tree.  Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the crosswalk just in front of you.  Enter the intersection and take a right. You should see a row of green awnings on the right. Continue down this road until you reach the next intersection and take a right. You should see a coffee shop on the left side of the road and a cell phone store on the right the black awning. Continue forward until you are standing on the crosswalk before the next intersection. Stop and turn to your right.  you should see a trash bin sitting next to a traffic light pole. Click the base of the trash bin to find touchdown. 
 Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic with the red dumpster ahead.
Turn right at the next intersection.  You should see a mailbox covered in graffiti on your right and a neon yellow sign ahead with two people on it.
Go straight through the next intersection.
As you approach the next intersection, you'll see a green awning on the left and an orange awning on your left.  Turn right at this intersection.
Shift back and forth until you can go down this street with a basketball court to your left.

Keep going until the next intersection and you'll see alternating blue/red/yellow fencing (you passed some on the way here as well) to your right across the street.  On the corner you'll see a trashcan on the same side of the street as that fencing.  Touchdown is at the base of the trash can. Turn around and go with the flow of traffic.Go to the first traffic light and turn left.At the next traffic light turn left again. As you just go past a green dumpster on your left stop and turn to your left and you will see an a/c unit on a building. On the top of the a/c unit you will find Touchdown. Orient yourself in the direction of the bikes to the left. Go straight and take a right at the scaffolding. Take another right at the next intersection. Go straight until reaching a bright blue awning to the left.  Touchdown is on the top center front of the awning. Turn yourself so the orange construction barrier is on your right and start toward intersection. Turn Left at intersection  Construction scaffolding and blue dumpster will be on your left as you start down the street.  Turn left at intersection.  Truck parking area will be on your right and a fenced off car parking area will be on your left.  As you approach the intersection, a green trash basket will be on the left corner of the intersection near a traffic pole.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the trash basket. With the angled roofs to your right, Go straight and take a right at the first intersection. Take another right at the following intersection. You should be on a small street with two wider sidewalks flanking you. Go straight, past the yellow awning to the left. When you reach some scaffolding to the right, there is a red-awning entrance underneath. Touchdown is sitting on top of it. Go in the direction that puts the green scaffolding and orange cones to your right.
Turn right at the intersection. Blue scaffolding on the right when you turn.
Turn right again at the next intersection. 
Go straight at the next intersection.
Look left and stop when your next to the white brick building with the gray fire escape and brown awing.  There is an AC unit under the brown awing. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the AC unit.

 Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. There should be a few food carts with several yellow and red/blue umbrellas on your left, and an intersection should be just ahead.

2. Take a left at this intersection. There should now be scaffolding covered in Christmas lights on your right.

3. Take another left at the next intersection. There should now be a long line of blue bikes and several trees covered in Christmas lights on your left.

4. Follow this road for a while. Pass through the first intersection that you meet. Your destination is close.

5. Keep an eye on the last business on the right before the intersection. It should have a few lit-up Christmas wreaths hanging from its awning.

6. Stop when you're even with the start of this awning as well as the white van with blue logos parked in front of it. There should be a signpost with two signs behind this van.

7. Directly above the entrance to the aforementioned building should be a smaller wreath. Touchdown is in the center of it.

Good luck! :) Align yourself so the purple and white awning is ahead on your left. Head in to the intersection to make a right, then another right shortly after. You should be on a small road blocked by construction barricades on your left. Head straight through two left turns, and stop at the intersection afterwards. There will be two construction barrels on your left. Touchdown is on top of the right barrel. With the burgundy awning on your right, go with the flow of traffic. Go down to the next intersection and turn left.  Go  up to the construction barriers to your left and look up on your right hand side.  There is a sign over the bus lane.  There's an arrow pointing downwards, Touchdown is on this arrow. Make sure you are facing in the direction of traffic, towards the intersection. Turn right at it, and walk over to the next one. Make another right. The construction should be behind you. You will pass a bus stop on your right. Keep going. There will be a 3 way intersection with a street coming in on your left. Go past it. There will be a bunch of scaffolding on your left. Walk to just before the end of it. You will be right behind the zebra walk of the intersection. There will be a food cart on your right. You will see a fire hydrant to the left of it. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant.  Turn so you are facing the same direction traffic is pointing to. There will be store on the right side. The road will curve to the right a little bit continue to follow it. At the first intersection turn right. The left side will have a teal door and the right side has a red awning up the street a little way.  At the next intersection, you come to turn right again.  It will be a narrow one-way road with parking on the left side,  On the sidewalk on the right side, there will a store with stands of fruit outside. There is a large blue advertisement sign on the ground, before the stands. The touchdown is on the top of the blue sign,  Turn yourself until the scaffolding is on your right side and a small black fence with bicycles leaning against it is on your left side. Head straight until the second intersection and turn left. Two small green buildings will be on your left. Move forward until the next intersection and stop at the crosswalk or white vertical lines on the street. Touchdown is on top of the red pole which is on the right side of the road.   You are in the middle of an intersection. Turn so the trees are on your right and you are moving with traffic flow. Go down to where you see blue rental bikes on your left. Before you get to the end of the bikes, turn to your right and see a hydrant in front of a tree. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant.  Follow traffic, making sure to stay in the rightmost lane. [Interface note: Watch for the very easy to miss lane change.]  You will end up in a very dark tunnel.  Watch to your left for three huge overhead doors, which look black in the low light. The rightmost one has a reflection of a green light. Touchdown is upon it. Turn so the scaffolding is on your left and the entrance to a garage is on your right. Walk two blocks. 

At the second intersection, turn right. It will again be a one-way road. You'll have a store with a red sign, white lettering, and two stars on your right. Walk to the end of this block and stop in the middle of the intersection.

On your left corner ahead, there is a pedestrian crossing sign. Touchdown is on the lighted face of this sign.


 Follow traffic, so the white corner store is to your left and the brown building with mannequins in the window is to your right side.  When you start walking, you will immediately encounter a split in the road, with a treed island in the middle.

Take the right path, which though it is not the road less traveled, is the correct one for you.

Keep looking to the left for a very tall green metal pole with a red metal sign with white letters on top of it, and walk until it's almost exactly to your left.

Touchdown is affixed to the center of the sign. Orient so the building with arches and a black fence surrounding it is to your right and follow the direction of traffic to the end of the block. Go right.  Go right again at the end of the block.

To your left should be a building with white cinder block and a blue overhang and on your right a building with a white sign band with garish red and blue letters.
Proceed forward until you see on your right a red wall with a dropdown door covered in graffiti, that's to the right of a set of stairs with white framing.  

Staring straight at the graffiti covered door, you will see an air conditioner above it, right aligned.  Touchdown is adhered dead center to the front of the A/C unit. Turn and go toward the traffic. Bike parking will be on the right. Turn right at intersection. Green boarded building to the left. Turn right at the intersection. A white buiding with green boards on the right. After you pass this building look up ahead on the side of a building and touchdown is sitting at the end of the red, white and blue flag pole. Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street and facing the nearby intersection.  Go forward to the intersection (no lights or stop signs) and turn left.  
You'll be on a very narrow street and ahead there will be some white construction barriers to the right.  Go forward until you reach an intersection.  This is a divided street that you're turning onto.  Go straight through the first part of the intersection, and when you get to the intersection area at the far side, turn left.  You'll then have the grassy median area on your left and parked cars on your right.  Move forward and go straight through the first intersection you come to.  As you go through the intersection, note the wooden bench in the median area (near the grassy area).  After you've gotten out of the intersection and past that bench, stop.  Just ahead of you on the right there is a bus stop shelter.  The bear is on the center of the bench in the bush shelter.  Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street. Go straight until you reach an intersection, and turn right.  Go one short block to the next intersection, and turn right again.  Go to the other end of this block, and stop just before you reach the intersection (before you're in the crosswalk).  The building on the right has brown paper taped over the windows and doors.  The bear is on the door handles of these doors (the doors with brown paper in the window). GO WITH traffic, GO RIGHT at the light, GO RIGHT again next light.

STOP after the green entry canopy on your right. ROTATE RIGHT. You should be starting at the tan bricks of the building with the green canopy, where it's on your right, and a ramp goes downward on your left.

In front of you is a green metal pole with informational traffic signs.

FIND Touchdown atop the green pole. Orient yourself so theres a parked fancy red car on your right, next to a yellow sign. Go straight past the first stop light.  you will see a chain link fenced area on your right, and another yellow sign. There will be a man on your left in a black coat waiting to cross the street. the touch down is located on the top of the yellow sign, on your right. Stand so that you are facing the flow of traffic. Walk straight to the first intersection and turn left. Walk straight, passing through the first intersection, until you reach the next. Turn left. Walk straight a bit, and you will see on your left a parked bright red car, in between a darker red car and a white minivan. Touchdown is on the center of the bright red car. Follow traffic to the end of the block. Go right.  At the end of the block, go right again.  Proceed to the end of the block and walk forward into the intersection, stopping right before you pass the pedestrian crosswalk across the street.

Turning right without moving, you should see two orange and white striped construction barrels on opposite sides of a corner, with a grey metal pole holding a yellow foot traffic sign.  

Touchdown is sitting on the bottom yellow arm of the traffic sign, in the space between it and the top arm, and between the silver pole and the sign itself. Turn and go in the direction with the traffic. Turn left at intersection. Tan building with horseshoe window tops on the left. Go straight at intersection. Turn left at next intersection. Bike parking on the right.  Before the next intersection is another bike parking on the right. Touchdown is sitting on the last bike on the seat.  Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. There should be an orange chain-link fence around a construction area to your right.

2. Ignore the first three-way intersection that you come across (it's from two lanes merging). At the actual intersection, take a left. After reorienting yourself, you should be facing a bridge and another intersection.

3. When you enter the aforementioned intersection, take another left. The bridge should now be on your right. Your destination is close.

4. Keep an eye on a bright red parked car on your right. Pass that up. Very close afterwards is a red and white sign on the same side of the road. Get close, but make sure that you don't pass it up. Touchdown is in the very center of this sign.

Good luck! :) Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  The bright green store will be on your right.
Turn left at the next intersection.  When you do you should see scaffolding on your left.
Turn left at the next intersection where the scaffolding wraps around the building.
Go ahead until you are just past a dark pole with a blue band on the right.  Turn around and face it.  Touchdown is on this blue band.

 Face the stop sign just ahead, metal fence to the left.
Turn left here.
Keep a eye to the left here and make the first left shortly ahead 
Bridge columns are to your left now, in a fenced in lot. Move ahead to the stop sign directly ahead and turn left.
 there is a stop sign just ahead.
 Go straight through the stop sign and stop in the middle of the intersection.
 look to your right and see the small brick structure with white bars on the window.
Touchdown is on the window where the white bars meet


 Follow traffic to the light and go right. Go right again at the next light.  Watch for an American flag hanging from a building on the left, about midway down the block. Stop when you're even with the steps before that flag.  Rotate left so you're looking at the aforementioned grey door.  To the right of it, on the red brick wall between two horizontal grey concrete runs, is a single white flood light. Touchdown is atop it. Face the direction with the store with yellow letters to your left and the brown building with blue doors on your right. Go straight and make a left when you get to the first traffic light. Make sure you are on the corner with the red building and green garbage can which will be on your right after you make that left. Go down that street and make a left at the first traffic light. Go down that block and stop before you get to the intersection. There will be a red store awning on your left and a beige building with air conditioners on your right. touchdown is on the number part of the red awning on your left. Turn so the store with the red sign is on your right and travel with traffic down this road.  Turn left at the intersection and travel to the next intersection.  Turn left there, there should be a store with a an orange/red sign around it on the corner here.  Follow this road to the next intersection and turn left again.  You'll have a green awning on your left and a yellow on your right.  Go to the next intersection and turn left again.  Stop there.  Look to the store on the corner with a green sign and white writing.  On the sidewalk to the right of that store is a single black fire hydrant with a silver top.  Touchdown is sitting on top of that hydrant. Turn so you're facing the four-way intersection that's right near you.  Move into the intersection and turn left.
You'll have a green mailbox and a phone booth to your right.  Move forward until you come to a three-way intersection with a stop sign.  Go straight through the intersection.  Go to the next intersection, which has a traffic light.  Turn left here.  You'll have some sort of park or open space to your right, and a building with a red stripe across the top to your left.  
Go straight through the next intersection you come to - it's sort of a double intersection, go straight through all of it and just carry on in the direction you've been walking.  Shortly after that big double intersection you'll come to a three-way intersection where you could turn right.  Keep going straight, though.  Look on the left.  There will be one tiny patch of construction scaffolding, and right after that is a building with a big orange sign in one window and brown paper over the other windows.  The bear is in the middle of the orange sign/window.

 Stand so the fenced park area is on your left. Move forward through the intersection and continue straight until you reach the next intersection: turn right. Move to the next intersection and turn right again. 

Continue straight through 2 intersections. At the 3rd, turn right. Immediately on your right will be an orange and white striped cylinder. Touchdown is on top. Enter the nearest intersection and go right. There will be a black storefront on the right corner of you. Go right again at the next  two intersections. This one will again have a black storefront to your right, on a brick building. At the next intersection, go right on last time. After entering the street, turn to look at the white building on your left and see the pole with colorfully painted heart shapes on it. Touchdown is sitting on the ground just to the right of that pole.  Turn so you can see the large red truck parked on the left side of the street. Go straight.
At the light take a right turn. Go straight. At the first intersection you come to go straight. At the next light continue going straight ahead. There will be a soccer field on your right. Stop just past the bust stop on your right where there are some covered benches. There is a chain link fence on the right side of the road around some construction. Turn to face the fence. On the right upper corner there is something orange hanging from the fence. Touchdown is sitting on the fence right above that.  Stand so you are facing the close intersection. When you reach it, continue straight. At the next intersection, turn right. Go forward, passing through one intersection. At the second, turn right.

About halfway down this block, on your right is a small neon yellow/green sign with two people on it. Touchdown is on this sign. Align yourself with the man on the bike in orange, and the postal truck on your right. Head down to the intersection and make a right.

At the first intersection after your turn, make another right. Follow this down a several steps until you hit two staircases to residential on your left, it'll be the first sets of staircases on your left. Touchdown is sitting on the top step of the left staircase. Turn yourself so you are facing the direction of the moving cars. 
Continue to go straight, eventually going under a large green sign. 
Soon after going under the large green sign, you will see an opening of the buildings on your right and some trees. Move straight until these trees are directly to your right. 
You should see the trees, than to the right of them a road and then to the right of the road a short building with a larger building attached to it. 
Directly under the name of the building is an open door. Touchdown is sitting on top of this door, on the frame of the door. .  turn so that the water is at your back and you are facing a long road ahead of you go straight to the first intersection, not the one your in as it will tell you almost  immediately that your at an intersection 
take a right there will be a brown brick building on your left continue straight to the next intersection take one more step forward and stop
on your right there is a trashcan sitting by the light-post touchdown is sitting at the base of this trashcan  Orient yourself with traffic and proceed forward. Turn left at the first stop light, and then left again at the next light. Stop when you completely pass the first tree on the sidewalk on the left. Just ahead should be a sign overhanging the street. Touchdown is on the black arrow on the sign. Turn so you are going the correct way down this one way road. Enter the intersection and make a left turn. There will be a greenery area on the right side. Go down this curvy road for a long time. The road will curve a few times as you go. Eventually you will reach an intersection. Make a left turn and go a very short distance then stop. Turn and look to the right. The building has silver awning with brown rectangles on it. Touchdown is on the trashcan on the corner. Face the flow of traffic with the beige building on your left and the apartments on your right. Go down the block and make a right at the first traffic light. You should now be facing a building that has a clock and steeple at the top of it. Go toward that and make a right at the first intersection. There should now be a reddish brown building on your right with signs covering the windows. Go down that block and stop when you get to the corner. There will be a green storefront on your right and a red store awning on your left. Touchdown is on the logo of the red awning on your left. Go in the same direction as traffic.  There will be a store painted bright red on your right.  Move forward to the first intersection.  Turn right.  There will be a store painted in all kinds of bright colors on your right.  Go to the next intersection.  Turn right.  There will be a store with a bright yellow awning on your right.  Go to the next intersection.  Turn right one last time.  There will be a store with a small, red, scalloped awning on your right.  Go a little over halfway down the street, watching on your right for a yellow awning with blue lettering.  Pass this awning and stop. Turn to your right in order to see the awning  again.  Below it is a circular neon sign with a blue outline.  Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the neon blue circle.  
 Align yourself with the fenced in court on your left, Head down this street to the first intersection and take a right.

Head down past the first intersection, and you'll pass a red brick building with three red doors on your right. Stop at the parking lot after this building.

You should see a yellow post to the left of a traffic cone. Touchdown is sitting on top of the post. Face so the scaffolding over the sidewalk is on your left and move forwards with the flow of traffic.  Go through the first intersection and turn right at the second.  After turning, the first building on the left will have construction work.  You will pass a building on the left with an large inflated soccer ball hanging out front.  Continue forwards and go through the next intersection.  A little ways after the intersection look to your left between the parked cars.  There is a black fire hydrant with a silver top and two posts protecting it next to the curb.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this fire hydrant. Turn and walk in the same direction as traffic.  You should soon pass a building on your right with 2 black flags hanging off it. Standing at the 1st intersection you come to, you will see American Flags on buildings on both sides of the street straight across the intersection. Go left at this intersection.  Go straight through the next intersection you come to. Go just over the crosswalk turn to your right.  There is a building with colorful flowers along the front fence. You should almost be in front of 3 fancy garbage bins, 2 are green and the middle one is blue.  Touchdown is sitting right on top of the blue one. Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street.  Go forward until you reach an intersection, and turn left.  This is a short block - go to the end of it and turn left.  On this new block, you'll pass a food vendor with blue and yellow umbrellas on your right.  Keep an eye on the buildings on your right.  Partway down the block you'll find that instead of a building right along the sidewalk there's an open plaza.  Stop just before you're even with the start of this plaza.  On your right, and just a bit ahead of you, is a square concrete planter with some plants in it.  The bear is on top of those plants.  Turn around to align yourself with traffic. The parking should be on your right. Head up to the intersection to make a left.

Head all the way down to the next intersection, and stop just before the turn. On your left at the pedestrian crossing should be some flowers and a small tree with some grass. Touchdown is at the base of the tree. Follow traffic, with the red flag with white text on your right, and go through the first light, taking a right at the second. A huge square sculpture will be on your right. Go straight through the next light and stop at the end of the red shop on your left, before the wooden benches.  Rotate to face the red letters and window, and there's a trash can to the left of a tree in front of you, over the center of which Touchdown sits. Move with the flow of traffic on the busy street, so that when you start, the short red post is on your left. Move ahead to the first intersection and turn right. Now go down this tree-lined street all the way until the next intersection. You'll pass scaffolding off and on, then grass on your right soon before the intersection. At the intersection, turn right. Just a bit after turning, on your left is a long green awning with white writing. Touchdown is on the end of the awning. From your starting point, please turn around so that you are facing an intersection.  There should be a yellow wall on your right.  Walk forward and then stop in the middle of the intersection. 

Turn to your left at this intersection and look down a wide, one-way street.  There should be a dull-green awning on the right, and two gray/silver awnings with orange stripes on the left.  Walk down this road until you come to an intersection.  

Turn left at this intersection, and start walking down the narrow road.  There will be a light gray wall with red awnings on the left, and a red wall with light-colored arch shapes on the right.  Just walk straight down this road for a while.  

You will pass a small playground behind a fence on your left, and when you later see a parking lot (with vans) on the left up ahead, just ignore the little park on the right and keep walking straight forward.  

When you pass a silver food cart on your right, with a red and yellow umbrella, you are getting close, so keep an eye open for landmarks.

Walk forward, and look to your left as you go.  On the left, in the shade, you should see a dark gray pole (about the height of a person) with a small blue sign near its top.  

Walk forward until you have just passed this gray pole.  If you look to your right, you should be standing right next to a window with some white lettering above a tiny curtain.  On your left should be a black (or dark blue), parked van.  

If you are in this spot, then you can find Touchdown sitting right on top of that dark gray pole, which will be just slightly behind you, and right behind the rear doors of that parked van. Orient yourself so the white car and the white truck are on your right hand side. Move through the tunnel to the intersection. Turn right and face the direction which traffic is flowing. Move forward until you are almost at the underpass. Stop when the large, maroon tractor trailer is on your right. Orient yourself to face the side of the road which has trailers waiting in bays. Between the maroon tractor trailer and white tractor trailer is a red cone. Touchdown is resting on top of the red cone.  Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic and facing the intersection, continue straight to the intersection and take a right, You should see a green bike lane to your left and a row of diagonally parked cars to the right, Continue straight to the next intersection and take a right, Continue straight to the next intersection and stop when you are in the middle of the intersection, Turn Left until you see a row of parked school buses and a green box on a pole, click the bottom of the green box to find touchdown.
 Hello. You are standing in the middle of an intersection. Please orient yourself with the flow of traffic. You will see a faded red brick building to your left that has white bricks halfway up on your left side. On your right side is a black and grey building with a red sign that has white letters.

Go straight through this intersection. Continue going straight down this long path. There will be trees lining both sides with parked cars here and there. 

When you reach the first intersection, turn left. Once you have turned, you will notice scaffolding on both sides of the path with green awnings. There are some tall trees on the right side. 

Go straight towards the next intersection. Slow down as you approach it. You want to stop a little bit before the actual crosswalk. Keep an eye on the right side. There is a parked white car. Please stop when you reach the trunk of this white car.

Touchdown is in the middle of the rear wheel of the white car. Good luck!
 Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Turn right at the next intersection.
Then again, turn right at the next intersection.
If you're facing the correct direction, you'll see a awning that is orange and purple to your right with a store on the left trimmed with blue and gold(yellow?) tile trim.
Turn right at the next intersection after a long walk.  On your right is a bright orange storefront with an awning.  
Touchdown is on the birdlike logo on the awning. Follow traffic, and go left at the fourth light.  The building on your left will have greyish awnings with white stripes.  Stop when you pass the first roll-up metal door on your right, and can rotate right, and be staring head on at a black door.  

Touchdown is adhered to the yellow sticker with black letters on the black door between the two metal roll-up doors. Turn so the grassy area is to your right. You need to go right at the upcoming intersection. There should be a building with blue windows on the second floor to your left. After that, you will pass a playground with green and yellow structures on your left. At the next intersection, go right, but not into the first lane you come to. Cross over the street and enter the far lane.  You will be going the wrong way in this lane. You should see a bridge overhead in the far distance.  Stop before getting to the next intersection, in front of the crosswalk. On the corner to the left of you, see a blue circle sign with a bus in it. Touchdown is on top of that sign.   Go with traffic with the bikes on your left.  Turn right at the light. Turn right again at the SECOND light. Make a final right at the next light.

To your right should be a building with a red door to the right of a grey metal roll-up door, and green walling to the left of the door between two pillars.  There is a white fire escape above that door.   Rotate right so you're facing this door.

To the left of the door, on the green wall, is a white surveillance camera. Touchdown is atop it. Turn so you'll be moving in the same direction as the traffic on this one way street (not which way the parked cars are all facing).  Go forward to the end of this block.  Stop just before you enter the intersection (so you're standing in the crosswalk, but haven't gone out into the intersection).  The store to your right, on the corner, has a white and orange bench outside it.  The bear is on the part of the bench closest to you (sitting on the bench). Turn so you are facing the flow of traffic and you will see a painted word on the street right in front of you. Go straight. When you come to the intersection, turn left. Go straight down this one way street until you reach an intersection. Turn left. Go straight down this one way street, seeing a street light up ahead. Pass under this street light and notice some green scaffolding on the left. Look behind this scaffolding at the brick building. There is a black gate in front of this section of the building and 2 small rectangular windows. In between and under these two windows is a small black sign with a white border and red words. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of this sign.  Turn so that you're walking in the same direction that the cars are driving. Go straight until the next intersection, then turn right. Turn right again at the next intersection and go down the street until you have what looks like a chapel on your left. Touchdown is sitting on the door knob of the door to the chapel. Get turned so the bright blue benches are on your left side and you are facing the intersection. Go straight. Turn right and go across to the other lane then turn right again so you are going back on the same road but on the other side of it. When you come to the first intersection that is on a curve keep going straight on this road. There is some orange construction equipment on your left side. At the next intersection where the road still curved to get there, make a right turn. Once you get turned you should see a white building up to your left ahead that has a parking lot before it. You will pass a playground on your right side. Right after you get past the playground come to a stop. If you look right you will see a walkway between the playground fence and the building that has blue under and over the windows. There is a fire hydrant just to the left of the walkway that has 2 yellow poles by it. Touchdown is on top of that hydrant.  Follow traffic to the end of the block with the scaffolding on your left and the fenced in park to your right. Go left. At the end of the block, go left again. You should be on a street with a strip of red asphalt and trees along the sidewalk on your right.

Walk until the building with the stoop with blue railing is directly to your right, and turn to the left. You should be facing a dark grey building with a large glass window and smaller glass door, flanked on the left by a shop with a blue sign band with white text, and on the right with a white sign band with red text.  You should see a black door with 12 small panes of glass. Above it are two lights, between which are two circles, one red and one yellow.

Touchdown is impaled on the red circle. Align yourself so all the taxis are on your right, and head straight through the first intersection, to make a right at the second intersection. You should pass a neon red lettered sign on your right after the turn. A couple steps down after the scaffolding ends on your left, you'll see a black shuttered door with a black sign above it, behind a white service van. Touchdown is in the middle of the black sign. Make sure you are facing in the direction of traffic, with the scaffolding to your left. Walk down the street, passing the construction on your right. You will also see a store with tall windows and yellow curtains on your right, and directly after it there will be an intersection, at which you will turn right. Pass the scaffolding on your right, and cross the intersection right after it. Stop when the hot dog stand is just to your right, and you can see an American flag on your left. Touchdown is sitting on top of the trash can next to the hot dog stand.  Face to follow traffic and go right when you reach an intersection. Go right again at the next one.

You should see on your right a very red building with many shops. Walk past that, and look on your left and ahead, for a red overhang. (don't go to it). When you can see it diagonal to you, look to your right.  There is a shop with two pillars with smooth bases and huge bricks.

On the last pillar is a small circular metal plaque, on the smooth part right under the bricks. The touchdown is stuck to it. When you are going in the right direction, an intersection will be right there. Go right at that intersection directly in front of you. Go down this road with traffic cones on your left. Go through the first intersection and turn right at the second. Moving with traffic, go down this road a ways, past a blue round canopy on the left, to where you see green bushes on the left, just past the blue fire escapes on the right. Past a red round canopy on the left, past the first red door on the left, there is a second, lighter red door that Touchdown is placed below the knob. With the red stripe on your right, go to the light and GO LEFT. GO LEFT at the THIRD light, STOP before passing the markings on the asphalt, before the crosswalk.  You should see a fenced in court on the left corner and a fenced in playground on the right corner as you're looking down the street.

FIND Touchdown center on the yellow triangular sign ahead and to your right. Go with traffic coming at you down the one way. Go straight at the right turn only.
Turn left at the intersection. Traffic will still be coming at you. Stop just pass the word school painted on the street before the next intersection. There is a red and gray fire hydrant between two gray poles on the left. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant.  
 Follow the flow of traffic with the scaffolding on your left and make a left at the first intersection. Pass the red awning on your left and make your last left at the first intersection. Continue past the green awning on your left and stop when you have a red awning on your left and blue awning on your right. On your left, to the left of the red awning, there is a gray door with a diamond. Touchdown is in the center of that diamond. Turn yourself so the open door are on your left and a closed door is to the right. Go straight until the first intersection and turn right. There will be a long scaffolding setup to your left. Go straight until there is a trash can and cigarette ash can along the wall of the building on the right side of the road. Touchdown is between the two cans against the wall.  Stand so that you are walking with the flow of traffic and moving away from the close intersection. Continue straight, passing one intersection. Continue until you are between 2 basketball courts. On your left is an orange sign outside the court. Touchdown is the center of the orange sign. Turn so you can follow traffic to the intersection that is a very short distance away.  Go to that intersection and turn right.   You'll see a billboard with a lime green stripe near the bottom.  Follow this one-way road through two intersections and turn right at the third when you see the bright yellow building on the left. With the yellow building behind you, continue down this road following the brick wall on your right.   Stop right before the brick wall turns into a metal wall.  There is a single red sign on a post in front of the brick wall.  Touchdown is sitting in the very middle of the red sign. Turn and go in the same direction as traffic. Go left at the intersection, then turn yourself around and go back to the intersection.  You should have a blue and white striped awning on the corner store to your right. Go straight through this intersection. Go right at the next intersection. The corner store to your right will have big yellow and red letters. Stop just after passing those letters. Looking at the corner store to your left, note the circle item in the window. Touchdown is in the middle of that circle.  Orient yourself so that the intersection is directly in front of you.  There will be a park to your left.  We are walking around the block such that this park will always stay on your left.  Go straight through the intersection directly in front of you, straight through the 3-way intersection you encounter, then turn left at the 40way intersection.  As you head down this road, go straight through the first 3-way intersection, but stop at the second one.  Stop immediately after you cross over the first crosswalk.  To your left is a black and white sign with an arrow that is pointing in the direction you were heading.  Touchdown is on top of this sign, in the middle of the top.   Orient yourself so that the bright store with gold writing is to your right, and on your left is a gray store with blue details and white letters. Move straight until you come to a 4 way intersection and pass straight through it. You should pass some plants on your left. Continue straight through an option to veer left, then straight through an opportunity to veer sharply right. 

When you come to the next intersection (with a blue store border to your left), you need to go straight to enter into it, then you'll have the chance to move in 4 directions; stop here. Ahead of you to the right is an orange cone next to a pole. Touchdown is on top of the cone. Go into the intersection and turn right. If you are headed the correct direction the road is straight and does not curve.There is a building on the right side that juts out in a geometric angled type of design. Go straight. At the first intersection, turn right. Once you are turned there is a building with angled support beams or columns to your left. Go forward just a short distance until you are almost to the corner of that building. Across the street on the right side there is a building with a lot of yellow. Touchdown is sitting on the ground  at the ATM that is in front of that store. Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street. Go straight until you come to an intersection, and turn left at the intersection. Go one very short block to the next intersection and turn left. You'll have construction scaffolding on your right as you start down this block.  After the scaffolding you'll pass a very blank-looking wall on the right, then a boring brick building.  After the boring building you'll come to a brighter building on the right (white walls and colorful accent painting).  Stop just before you're in line with the green overhang over the front doors of that colorful building - you'll be even with two navy blue sets of doors.  One set of navy blue doors has two door handles (one on each door).  The other set of navy blue doors has just one handle (the left set of doors).  The bear is on that single door handle. Follow traffic across the intersection down the one way street, where there is a white brick building that has colorful graffiti of a cityscape on it to your left.

Face this building dead on, so its black door is slightly to your left and the purple bridge painted on its wall a little to your right. You should be facing a white skull painted on a grey metal security door.  

Touchdown is attached directly between the eyes of the skull. Turn so the tree is on your left and go with traffic flow to the first corner you come to and turn right.

Still with traffic flow, go to the next corner, turn left, then stop. Turn around and now go down this road as you cannot turn right at the corner to get down this road. As you begin down the road, on your left is a red brick building with the store name multiple times down the side of the building. Above the store name are triangle shaped windows. Go down this road going through the immediate intersection option as that's the road you just came off of.

Go through the next 3-way intersection that comes up and stop just before the food cart that's on the right just a short bit ahead. Before the food cart is a square gray post with a blue line around the top. Touchdown is on top of that square gray post with the blue line around the top.
 Orient yourself so that the red brick building is to your right and the fenced in sports courts are to your left.  Go all the way down this long street to the intersection.  When you get there, turn right so that the store with the red sign with pinwheels on it is to your right.  Head down this street.  You'll soon see another intersection.  Stop just before this intersection, before you even cross over the first crosswalk.  To your left, in the other lane, is a manhole cover.  It's quite near the crosswalk.  Touchdown is sitting in the middle of this.   You're going to want to position yourself so you see the white bus in front of you with the huge bridge up top. Follow that until the intersection and then take a left. You should have fensces on both sides. You're going to go past the intersection so you're right in front of the bus. Look right. Your touchdown is in the middle of the sign that lit up.  Go with the flow of traffic on the narrow road that has vertical windows to your right.  There is only one lane of traffic.   Go straight through the first intersection.  Shortly after there is another stoplight.  Touchdown is on the center of the sign to your right which is a no left turn sign (in front of the restaurant with a green logo). Orient yourself so the green plywood awning held up by scaffolding is on your left and a green chain link fence with green netting is on your right.  Walk straight through the first intersection.  Just before you enter the next intersection, stop.  Look ahead on your left side, there is a red post on the corner of the street in front of the playground.  Touchdown is on top of the post. Position yourself so all the red signs are on your left side.
Go down this street until you hit the next intersection. You'll pass some cones and a ladder on the way.
Take a left at the intersection.
Take your next left. There will be a green supermarket on the corner.
Travel down this street until you see a cluster of trash cans and cardboard boxes on your red hand side.
The touchdown is the first letter of the black and white sign that's erected on the sidewalk across from this. NOT the one in the street.
 Stand so you are facing the tunnel. Move straight through the tunnel and then turn right. Go straight until you are just under the overpass. On your right is a black and white arrow sign. Touchdown is on the sign. Stand so that the pink awning is on your left across from a black building with glass windows on your right, and so that you are walking with the flow of traffic. Walk straight -- you will pass 2 intersections. At the 3rd, you will see a yellow/white striped awning on the right corner in front of you. Touchdown is the middle of that awning. Turn yourself so you are with traffic and an iron fence is on your left.  Head toward intersection.  Turn left at intersection.  Turn left again at next intersection.  You will see a playground to your left as you start down the street.  Turn left at intersection.  Playground with multicolored fence will be on your left.  Turn left at intersection just past the playground.  Multicolored fence will be on your left.  Just past playground you will approach a white building with a fire escape on your right.  Touchdown is sitting on the bottom step of the fire escape stairs. Follow the traffic direction, where your left should be blue/yellow sign for a store and on your right should be a tan color building with green letters. follow the traffic, soon you will see a mobile carrier van on your right. follow the traffic till the next intersection. You will see a store with white letters on black background on your left and a red back ground with white letters sign on your right. Turn right at this intersection. You will see a delivery truck on the right side of the road unloading. Continue following traffic till next intersection. You will see a red color building on your right. Turn right here at this intersection. Now you should see a white delivery truck on your left and a yellow delivery truck on the right side of the road. Go pass the yellow delivery truck. On the left side of the road there is a store with black background and white letter sign, and it has a button in the sign. The touchdown is at where the button is.  Go with traffic.
Pass the first intersection.
Keep going straight at the next intersection.
Turn right at the next intersection.
Turn right again at the next intersection. 
Pass a red suv on the right and stop next to a white van.
Touchdown is on the zip code(10566) of the white van.

 Face in the same direction as traffic with the construction site to your left. Walk to the intersection.

Turn left. You'll have a parked mail truck on your right. Walk down two bocks. At the second intersection, turn left again.  

This time you'll have scaffolding on both sides of the street, but you'll be headed into one-way traffic coming at you. Walk down one block and turn left one more time.

This time you're going the same way as traffic. Walk all the way down to the next intersection.

Once you're almost, stop and look up to the right corner ahead of you at the pole holding a pedestrian signal and two black signs with white arrows on them. Touchdown is on the sign that points in the direction you were headed.
 Orient yourself with traffic where scaffolding is on the right. Follow this road until you get to the intersection, and then take a right. You will see a black sign with white and red lettering on your left and a brownish building with white lettering on your right. Go to the intersection and take a right. You will see a circular sign in the with. The middle is your touchdown.  Turn with the flow of cars and continue through one intersection, and take the next right.  At the next intersection, go right, then take a small step forward.  There is a display in the window with 3 circles on a yellow background.  (Left side of street).  Bear is in the middle one. You'll begin standing right on the edge of an intersection. You should be facing the traffic light, which puts a median with benches ahead on your left. Go straight through this intersection, and turn right at the first street you get to (it's a three-way intersection). 

After you turn, there will be a bright blue building ahead on your left. The next traffic light has rental bikes on the left. Keep going straight. Go straight also at the next intersection, but stop as you reach the crosswalk. There's a black and yellow motorcycle parked on your right in the first space after the crosswalk. Touchdown is sitting on the seat of this motorcycle.  Turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  The shop with the yellow stripes should be on your right.  

Walk forward, and then stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to. 

Turn to your right in the intersection, and you should be looking down a street with newspaper boxes and an orange ladder on the left-hand sidewalk, and some motorcycles parked on the right side.  It's a tricky intersection, but try to move onto this street, so that the scaffolding stays on your right as you proceed.  If you see an orange diamond shaped sign on the right, you are on the right track.  

Move forward, pass a construction area on your left, and stop in front of a large stone arch with statues carved into its supports. 

Turn to your right here, and face down a street with a hot-dog cart (with umbrellas) on the right-hand sidewalk.  This is another tricky intersection, but try to move forward so that the white and purple ice cream truck stays on your right as you pass.  When you are properly situated, just move forward until you see a white SUV with blue stripes parked on the left.  Along the way you should pass a park on your left and a red brick building on your right.  

When you are right next to that SUV, stop and look up to your right.  You should see a purple and white flag.  If you are close enough to the SUV, you'll be able to see the flag clearly, without any branches blocking it.  Touchdown the Bear is sitting on top of the little metal ball on the end of that flagpole Get turned so your back is to the intersection you are right next to. On your right side you will see a bunch of chairs out on the sidewalk. Go straight. When you get to the first intersection keep going straight. At the next intersection make a left. Keep going straight down this road.The median with bushes will be on your right side and a brick and metal fence is on the left side. When you get to a small 3 way intersection where there is a building with a yellow awning to the right, keep going straight. You won't get to the next intersection. There is a brick building ahead on the right with large arched windows. Go until you are almost to the end of that then stop. Look to the right on that building there is a green square. Touchdown is on that green square.  To your right should be some orange and white construction barriers. To your left is a building that is made of brick and has three green doors. Once you're in position please head straight.
When you come to the first intersection please make a right turn.
Head straight and so you reach the next intersection. Now make another right turn.
If you turn on the correct street to your left is a building with many green awnings with white words. Please continue straight. After traveling a short distance you will find more buildings on your right with green awnings. Beside the first building on the right with the green awning is a building with a white door. Touchdown is sitting on the ground directly in front of the white door. Follow traffic to the light and go left. Go left again at the next light: there will be a long rack for bike rentals on the right, as well as a corner store with huge red letters on a black sign band. Go left at the next light.  The left corner shop is very blue, with a red awning and fire escape.
Stop when directly in front of the shop with a long pole with blue and red diagonal stripes on a white background and rotate to face it..

Touchdown is atop the pole. Turn to face with traffic, then go as straight as you can to the second intersection. There will be a building with a lot of glass on your right, and a building with a red name sign across the street. From here, take a left, facing the a stack of boxes. Go forward exactly one block, there will be a theater on your right. Go left, and follow this road  one block. Cross the street, and there will be a blue mailbox, a green trash can, and some metal frames on your right. Touchdown is on top of the mailbox. Get turned so the blue steps are on your right side and go straight to the intersection. At the intersection make a left turn. Once you turn there is a blue dumpster on the left. Go straight. At the first intersection keep going straight. At the second intersection make another left turn. There will be blue signs on a wall on your right side.Go a short distance. Stop when you are at the entrance to a small side street on your right. Face the right and you'll see a crushed orange barrel right as the fence ends. Touchdown is in the black ring that the barrel is laying on.  Orient yourself so that the building with the wooden doors is on your right and the American flag is on your left. Go forward and turn right at the next intersection. Go forward and turn left at the next intersection and then stop. You will see a brown/red loan sign on your left with gold letters. The touchdown is on the lowest white circle in the logo.  Orient yourself with the flow of traffic. Red scaffolding is on your right and green scaffolding on your left. Turn right at the first intersection, and turn right again at the next, and a third right at the next intersection after that. There's red scaffolding on a pharmacy on your right. Just past the intersection and below the scaffolding above the pharmacy entrance, there's a yellow magazine holder on the street. Touchdown is on top of the yellow magazine stand.  Go with the flow of traffic to the first intersection and take a left turn. The wall around the building to your left will have some geometric designs on it.  At the next intersection, take a left turn.  You'll have scaffolding on your right. Proceed until you see scaffolding on your left.  Touchdown will be at the base of the lamp post where the scaffolding starts. Start walking with traffic. At the first intersection, make a right. Make another right at the next intersection. Look to your left along this street, you will see a giant red key shaped sign, hanging on a light pole with flowers attached. Touchdown is sitting on top of the flowers.  Facing so that you have trees and a few Orange safety barrels on your left and a row of blue bikes on the right, walk to the first intersection and turn right. Go through two intersections. At the third intersection there is a basketball court on the left. On that corner is a garbage can. Touchdown is in front of the garbage can. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the green bike lane to your left.  Continue forward to the next intersection and take a right. You should now see a green building with a green awning to your right and a black storefront with a red awning on the left.  continue forward passing the first and second intersection. Before you've reached the third intersection you should see a building with a blue awning on the left and a brown delivery truck to the right of it. Continue for to the intersection and take a right. You should see a brick building with a mural above the awning to your right and a red brick building on the left. Continue forward until you have passed the storefront with a blue sign on the right. Turn to your right and you'll see a store with a black sign and a green sign and a traffic cone in the doorway. Click the traffic cone to find touchdown. Turn so you are facing the same direction as the moving traffic. Go straight towards some large trees on the right. Continue straight until you reach an intersection. Turn left. Continue straight down this one way street seeing trees up ahead on both sides. Keep going straight until you come to an intersection. Once you are standing in the middle of the intersection, look to the left where there is some green scaffolding on the corner. Look to the left for a blue mailbox. Touchdown is sitting on top of this blue box.  Turn yourself so you are facing the same way as traffic. At the first intersection, make a right. At the next intersection, also make a right. Go all the way down this street to the next intersection. Standing in the middle of the intersection, you will see several orange cones on the right side, and a black fire hydrant. touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant.  Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street.  Go forward until you reach an intersection, and turn left.  Now go one very short block to the next intersection.  Go straight through it, but stop before you're actually out of the intersection (you can still see the crosswalk down in front of you).  Look at the corner on your right.  There is a bright yellow newspaper dispenser box next to a phone booth.  The bear is on top of the yellow newspaper box. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  This will put a red and blue honeycombed building on your right.

At the first intersection, turn left. This will put the purple awning on your right.

Go to the next intersection and turn right.  You'll see a large silver pipe going up the side of the building.

At the next intersection, turn right again.  You'll see a red awning on the left.

Step through the intersection with stop signs.

On your left you'll see graffiti and two silver slanted boxes and a door in the middle.  Touchdown is on the door handle. Turn and follow the flow of traffic.  Take your first right.  Go through one intersection.  There is a green area on your right that is fenced in, pass it.  Pass the red brick building (Right), and the parking lot.  Once you pass the parking lot, look right and look for a fire hydrant.  Once in front of the hydrant, the bear is on top. Begin moving with the flow of traffic. Green scaffolding will be on your right. When you get to the first intersection, turn right. After you turn, you'll see two bikes parked on the sidewalk on your right.

At the next intersection, turn right again. There will be a kids blue bike parked on your right against a red curved pole. Keep going just a little more and you'll come to fenced in basketball courts on your left. Just past the middle point of the courts there will be a fire hydrant between two silver poles on the sidewalk (still on your left side). Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant.  Turn to face with traffic, then go to the end of the block, past the graffiti. Now turn right, and go to the end of the block on your right. There will be a park on your left, and it won't end where you're supposed to turn. Now turn right, down the base of this T intersection, you may have to do some weird maneuvering with traffic. The park should be behind you, now go forward until you're pretty much next to some blue graffiti. It should be a bit over half a block. There's a yellow traffic cone in the same lot as the graffiti, Touchdown is in front of the cone.  Go with traffic. Turn right at the first intersection Turn right again at the next intersection. Look left and stop next, slightly pass, the open blue parking garage door. There are three lights above the open door. Touchdown is sitting on the middle light. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Scaffolding should be on your right.

Move forward to the intersection and turn right.  You'll see a green awning ahead on the left.

Go forward until you're close to the intersection and turn towards your right.  You should see a row of bikes and a red door.  On the left of this red door is a storm/cellar door.  Touchdown is on the lock on this door. Begin by facing the flow of traffic. Go forward, and eventually you'll pass a group of freestanding signs on your left. Keep going past them. Go into the intersection with the stoplight, and continue straight. Keep going forward, until you see a a yellow brick building-front on your right, with a green sign above. Touchdown is in the red circle on the left of this sign. Face so that there is a yellow and pink overhang on the bldg ahead to the right, and giraffes in the windows on the right corner. Follow the street and go left at the first intersection. After passing the corner bldg to your right, there are steps to a bldg further back. Stop and directly face the wide door entrance of the bldg beyond the steps. Left of the steps, located a picture with a tree on it, seat level. Touchdown is in the middle of that tree.  Orient yourself facing the intersection and enter it. Turn right down a one-way street so a red brick building is on your left and a lighter red stone building on your right. Proceed down the street but not all the way down the block, so you are next to a light brick building with red brick designs on the right and a fenced off empty lot that is overgrown with trees and weeds on your left. Touchdown is on the black no trespassing sign on the fence at this empty lot.  Follow the flow of traffic to the first intersection right after the silver food cart on the left. Make a left onto the one way street, again going with the flow of traffic. Go straight past a narrow alley/street with two bikes chained to the street sign on your right. Ahead there is a fork in the road bearing right. Follow this fork through the two yellow diamond shaped signs with red circles. There will be orange construction barrels on the right. At the end of the barrells is an intersection. Turn left and see that the road forks again. Keep to the right, towards the green awnings. There will be a median with small trees on the left. At the end of the green awnings on your right, there is a tree with a small fence around it and wooden supports. There is an orange cone next to the tree. Touchdown is on top of that cone.  turn to align with traffic with the orange and white construction barriers to your right, at the 1st intersection take a right, there will be a row of blue bikes on the right. You will pass dumpsters on the right, continue to the next intersection. Take a right here, there will be blue awnings on your right, just before the crosswalk of the next intersection there is a storefront on your left with a string of lights in multiple colors, The bear is on the end of the light string at the corner of the awning Turn so the graffiti wall is on your right. At the intersection take a left. Go one block and take another left. You will see a roll up door that is yellow on your left with a painting of a male on it. Go down this street to the next intersection. Stop just before the crosswalk. Look to the right and find the yellow rectangle sign with a circle design on it. Touchdown is in the middle of this circle. Position yourself that you will travel the same way as the traffic is going, There will be green awnings on your left side. At the first intersection turn right, and there will be a large clock on the right side of the street. Continue down the street towards the crosswalk. Stopping passed the first crosswalk at the intersection. Across the way on the right side is a building with a climber in the window. there is a large green light post. You will find the Touchdown at the base of the light pole.  Turn yourself so that the reddish orange construction fencing is to your right. Go straight down this road until you come to the traffic light. Turn right at the traffic light. Continue down this road. You will go through a traffic light. Right After you go through the traffic light, look to your left and you will see some orange and white construction markers. To the left of those is a gray fire hydrant with a silver top. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant.  Orient yourself so that the yellow dashed lines on the road are to your left. Go the the intersection and take a right. Go straight through the intersection with orange barriers to the left. Keep going straight until you see an intersection with two strange looking buildings ahead. Take a right, and then take another right at the next intersection. Go straight until you see an intersection with a porta john to the right. Touchdown is on an orange barrier on the corner in front of the green wall. Go with traffic flow to the corner and turn right. 

Again, go with traffic flow to the corner and turn right. 

Go with traffic flow down this road, past the scaffolding on the left, past the dark blue awnings on the left. There will be a building on the right that has windows that open out to the sidewalk. Across from that building, on your left, is a light pole with a white, round light on it next to a stairway. Touchdown is on top of that light. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and the little white and silver posts are on your right.
Head down to the intersection ahead where there is scaffolding on the right and turn right. Head forward, passing a row of blue bikes on the right and trees to the left.
Turn right at the next intersection and you will have a playground on the right.
Shortly, you should see a neon yellow sign with people on it on your right.  Touchdown is hiding on that yellow sign. Go down the street with the flow of traffic, past the green canopy on the right, past the red narrow banners on the right to the intersection. Turn right.  Go to the next intersection and turn right. As you turn on this road, there  is a brick building on the right with bricked arched doorways. Go down to where there is construction scaffolding on the right and just past that there is a metal upside down U shaped bar in the sidewalk. This is where Touchdown is, on top of that upside down U. Turn and enter the intersection.  Turn right.  Then take the next right.  Continue forward until you are standing in front of the blue rental bikes.  Look left at the wall.  look for a black and yellow pattern.  The bear is in the middle.   Turn and go in the same direction as the traffic. Construction is on the left. Turn left at intersection. Construction still on the left.  Turn left at next red light. It is only one lane with construction on both sides. Make another left at intersection. A white and gray building will be on the left. At the next intersection  start to go straight thru it and look to your right and you will see a blue mailbox. Touchdown is sitting on top.  Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. There should be a large white building to your right and a parking lot to your left.

2. Move forward until you get to the first intersection, and take a right. After reorienting yourself, there should be a building with a few green awnings to your left.

3. Move forward until you reach another intersection, and take another right. After reorienting yourself, there should be a park to your left.

4. Move forward until you reach the next intersection, and take yet another right. There should now be a building with several black banners to your right.

5. Move forward until you're almost at the next intersection. Once you pass over the first crosswalk, stop. On your right should be a corner business with a black sign. To the left of this business is a gray mailbox covered in graffiti and a black fire hydrant near it. Touchdown is sitting on top of the hydrant.

Good luck! :) Orient yourself so you're going the same direction the traffic is.  Walk down to the intersection and turn right.  Walk up to the next intersection and turn right again.  Walk down this road, paying attention to your left side.  You'll pass a garden of some sorts that has a tan brick short wall with a black and glass fence on top of it.  Past that garden, on your right are two identical black awning that goes from the door to the curb.  When you're even with the second one, stop.  Right in front of you on the right curb is a silver and black fire hydrant.  Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, and make a right at the first intersection. Make a right at the next intersection. Right before the next intersection, on the corner, you should see a blue postal box next to a trash bin. Touchdown is on top of the blue box. Orient yourself with traffic. At the end of the block, turn right. At the next intersection, turn right again. There will be construction on both sides of the street. A little less than halfway down the street, Touchdown is on the front grate of the red dump truck on the left.  Orient yourself with traffic and turn left at the first available intersection down the one-way street, following the yellow hybrid taxi. At the end of the block, take a left. Take another left at the next intersection, now following a bicyclist in a green reflective shirt. Just a few paces into this street, there is a colorful mural on the left side with faces and lips. Touchdown is at the bottom of the fire escape hanging in front of the mural.  Orient yourself to move with the flow of traffic. At that first intersection, turn right. You'll pass red awnings on the corner on your right. Continue to the next intersection and turn right again, now walking between two light tan stone buildings. At the dead end, turn right and pass the park on your left. At the next intersection, turn right again. You will come to scaffolding on your right. Before the scaffolding is a yellow post. Touchdown is on top of the post. Go with the flow of traffic.  You'll go straight through the next intersection.  There will be blue bicycles to your left.  And two red flags on your right ahead.  Touchdown is on the bottom of the first red flag. Go with the flow of traffic to the first traffic light and turn left. Go to the next traffic light and make another left turn. Go past the next traffic light and as you near the next intersection you will see a building on your right with some long steps and lion statues on either side of the steps and Touchdown will be sitting between the paws of the lion on the right side Walk into oncoming traffic until you reach the intersection, and go left, stopping just before you clear the scaffolding to your left.  If you look ahead to your left, you'll see a sign band width huge bright neon red letters, and close to you on the sidewalk, two round cement planters with bushes. 

Touchdown is sitting on top of the bush in the planter closest to you. Orient yourself so that the blue awning is on your left, go straight and once you get to the second traffic light make a slight right, where the one blue and two green mail boxes are to your right and a picture of a person on a bike is on the ground in front of you. Touchdown is on the blue mail box on your right. Follow traffic, go left at light, and stop just past the black entry canopy on the right,  Rotate right, facing the grey bricks, where there are two windows and a red pipe against the wall.  Touchdown is atop the red pipe. Orient yourself so that the sign made of lit yellow letters is on your left. Move straight down this road for a while: you will pass straight through the three intersections. Then you should have an open area on your right with curved bike paths around it. Continue in your same direction until the next intersection, where you need to make a u-turn: you will turn left and then soon be able to take another left.  Now, move forward to the next intersection and pass straight through it. Then you should come to 3 red awnings in a row on your right. Touchdown is on the blue stripe of fabric before the first awning. Orient yourself so the large trees and row of planters are on your left, and you're facing the same direction the traffic is moving in.  Walk forward to the intersection and turn left.  You're on the correct road when there's a glass building with a red banner sign on your right and the park is still on your left.  Continue straight through the next intersection.  Walk down this very long block to the end.  The entire left hand side is all one building.  When you get to the next intersection (the one with a large white billboard with red dots all over it across the street on your left), enter the intersection and turn left.  Walk down the street slowly looking on your left.  You'll see a large black overhang sticking out that has a red star on it next to some white letters.  Stop just past this large overhang, and look for a lamp post that has a flower basket on it, high enough to be over people's heads.  Touchdown is nestled among the flowers with his back on the pole. With the trees to your left, go straight and take an immediate right. Go straight through the T intersection and then take a right. Go straight through the intersection and then you should see some scaffolding and a green awning to the right. Touchdown is on a pillar in front of that awning. Turn so that you're facing with the flow of traffic entering the single lane street. Go straight until the next intersection, then turn left. Right before you get to the next intersection, you'll see a green trash bin next to a tree on the right. Touchdown is sitting on the trash bin. Turn so that you are facing the direction of traffic and you're right in front of an intersection. Across the street should be a shop with a red sign and a striped awning. Turn right here. 

Next you will come to an intersection with just a street to to the left. Continue straight.

At the next intersection you should see a large red building with a white fence across the street to your right, and a smaller red and white building to the left. Turn left here. You should see cars parked in parking spaces on the right side of the road.

Walk to where there is white lettering on the road itself. Across the street to the left should be a green pole with a red sign attached. Touchdown is sitting at the bottom of the pole. 

 Orient yourself with traffic and proceed forward. Turn right at the intersection. Stop before the next intersection. There should be a mailbox on the corner to your right. Touchdown is in the mailbox. Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic, and go through this intersection.  Continue until you go under the bridge (You will pass 2 streets that you can turn at).  Stop before you enter the intersection after the bridge.  Look left.  There is a white brick building with 3 windows.  There are two circles on the wall.  The bear is on the left one.   Follow the flow of traffic and turn right at the first intersection. Go forward and then stop as you reach the next intersection. The touchdown is on the base of the grey pole across the street on the right.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and the orange/white barriers on your left.
Turn right at the first intersection you come to and you will have red awnings on your right at the corner building.  Continue straight down this road and stop just before the next intersection.  On the right corner, you will see two fire hydrants, a red one in further out and a black one with a silver top right next to you.  Touchdown is at the base of the black and silver hydrant. With the bike racks to your left, go with traffic. Go right at the intersection, and right again at the next one. There will be a stairway leading underground on your right immediately after turning, surrounded by a green fence. Go past it, continuing almost to the end of the road. Just before the intersection, notice the row of red awning on the corner store ahead to your right. Stop as soon as you are in front of it and face it.  There is  a red pipe to the right of it, on the ground. Touchdown is sitting on top of the red part of the pipe.  Align yourself with the flow of traffic, and the food cart on your left side.

Head to the intersection and make a right. Head to the next intersection, and go straight shortly past it.

You should see a shop with mannequins displaying clothes on your left after the intersection. Touchdown is sitting on the head of the middle mannequin in the first window, wearing the winter jacket, to the left of the red blouse mannequin. Turn yourself so you are going with the flow of traffic. Go straight until you come to a stoplight and turn left. You should now be able to see bright red neon signs slightly ahead on both sides of the road.  When you come to the next stoplight, go straight.  You should be able to see four different colored squares making one larger square on your right. Go to the next stoplight and turn left. After you turn, the building on the right should show 2 giant capital letters inside a circle. Go a short ways down the street until you see several sets of stairs side-by-side.  Just before you get to the stairs, you should see a giant concrete and brick pillar.  There is a black and gray trash can next to that pillar.  Touchdown is sitting on the trash can. Turn so the construction is on your right and you can follow the flow of traffic on this road.  Travel down this road, passing the first intersection.  Continue down the next long road and you will see it split off to the right.  Keep going straight, there will be a steel iron fence with gold tops on your left. Turn left when you reach the intersection and stop before you get to the plaza opening on your right after the glass building.  There is a pink banner on the light post with a black box on it.  Touchdown is sitting on the very top of the pink banner, in the center. Turn so the trees with the plantings underneath are on your left, and the black iron fence is on your right.  Move forward to the intersection right in front of you, and turn right. 
On this block you'll have a bike rack on your left.  Go forward to the next intersection and turn right again.
Now you'll have orange and white construction barriers on your left and a black iron fence on your right.  Go to the end of the block, and make another right.  
On this block you'll have orange construction barriers to your right, and the median strip has bright green bricks in the center strip.  Go to the end of this block (it's a short block), and turn right.  
Now you're back on the block you started on (at the opposite end), and you'll have a few orange construction barriers on your right at the beginning of the block, and trees with grassy plantings on your left. Move forward just until you're past the orange construction barriers on the right.  Look to the right and you'll have a green wood wall (construction type wall) right next to you.  There is a door in this wood wall.  The bear is on the door handle.
 Align yourself so the arched stone door is on your left and head up to the intersection. You should make a left here, and head straight through the next two intersections.

Shortly after, stop near the blue ad behind the concrete barricades on the right of the street. There should be a red sign on the traffic pole to the left of the ad. Touchdown is in the middle of the sign.
 Turn so that you are facing the same direction the cars are facing, with the potted plants on your left. Go forward, and make a right at the first traffic light, with the green awning on your right. Go straight, until you reach the end of the block, and make a right when you see a red awning on your right. Now, follow the flow of traffic, making sure to pass by the first side road on your right (don't turn right) and continue until you reach the end of the street, with a black store sign on your right, near the speed limit sign at the corner. Make your last right there. Touchdown will be on the first traffic cone (nearest to you) on your right by the tree. From your starting point, please turn around so that you are facing a small upward-sloping pedestrian walkway with two green barriers on both sides.  Sidestep to your left, and walk down the road, so that this pedestrian walkway is on your right as you move forward.  You should see some orange signs with black lettering on a pole as you proceed.

Move forward as far you can go, and then take a right at the T-intersection.  The small concrete dividing wall should be on your left as you proceed.  

Walk straight forward, passing another orange sign on your right, until you come to an intersection (just after some yellow signs with black diagonal stripes).  The intersection is tricky, and you will need to sidestep to your left, but then turn around and take the sides street on your right.  You should see two dark green mailboxes with white spray paint on the sidewalk to your right when you are facing the right direction.  

Walk straight down this road.  The middle of the road up ahead of you should have yellow stripes painted on it.  Walk down the road until you have passed a bus stop shelter with a bench and you are standing next to a small orange hand-cart.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the middle of the horizontal bar at the top of this cart.  Please make sure that you are as close as possible to the cart before trying to find the bear. Going with the flow of traffic, go to the first intersection and take a right.  The next intersection, you'll take another right.  er that is closest to the intersection.At the next corner there's a business that has burgundy banners. Touchdown is on the white circular sign with a star on it. Put the yellow car behind you. Turn right at the first intersection. Keep moving with rows of parked cars on either side. Touchdown is sitting in front of a blue door on your left, at the top of some of some steps, just before the next major intersection. Orient yourself so that you are moving with the flow of traffic, and turn right at that first intersection. Now on your right is a construction/scaffolding area and on your left is a bridge/higher road nearby.  Move straight until you reach an intersection and turn right again. At the next intersection, where you come to a dead end at a parking structure, turn right. Move ahead until you pass orange and white construction barriers on the right. Turn right at the next intersection and stop. Face left, and there is a small blue store sign with red writing. Touchdown is on the center. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Turn right at the next intersection.  When you do you should have a red awning on your left.
Turn right at the next intersection.  This is a 3-way and you may not be able to see the road when you get there.  There's orange and white barriers ahead, if you get to them, you've gone too far.
Once you make the turn, you'll see trees bent over the street.
Go straight through the next intersection.
Stop when you get to the scaffolding and are next to a light blue bike with red wheels.
Touchdown is on the back wheel spoke hub. Going with the flow of traffic, go to the first intersection and turn right.  Go straight through the next light. Stop when you get to the crosswalk at the next intersection. On your right, there is two trash bags next to a trash bin. Touchdown is on top of the trash bin. Go down the street, passing the inflated soccer ball on your left and red flag on your right, make a right at the second intersection. 
Follow the park on your left, staying on the left lane after you go through the first traffic light. On your right, you will see potted plants, stop after passing the first one and Touchdown will be on top of it. Going with the flow of traffic, go to the first intersection and turn left.  At the next intersection, turn left again. Across from the scaffolding, there's a set of grey doors after the horizontal wood designed business. Touchdown is hiding at the bottom center of those gray doors. Orient yourself in the same direction the cars are facing, with the green awning to your left, make a right at the intersection when you see the blue and white awning. Go down the one way street, make a left at the intersection where you see the beige building with the blue logo on it in front of you, follow the traffic to the second intersection and make a left. There will now be a black store sign with red letters on your right, follow the traffic and stop right before the first yellow diamond sign with the red symbol on it, by the creme colored building on your right. Touchdown will be on that first sign Orient yourself so the park is on the left and the shops are on your right. Proceed toward the intersection and turn left. At the next intersection, turn left again so the park is again on your left. Proceed down the street and turn right at the next intersection, which is a three-way. Go just a couple paces and there is graffiti on your left and a bicycle tied to a street sign on the right. Touchdown is on the first wheel of the bicycle.  Turn so you are going in the same direction as traffic. Head up to the intersection ahead. Take a left. There will be a business sign on your right with big white letters and food trucks parked on the left. Head down this street. When you come to the octagon red sign go straight through it.  Keep going straight. When you come to the next major intersection go straight through it. Stop when you see the oversize red letters on the sidewalk on your left. Touchdown is sitting on the top of this in the middle. Go with the traffic flow quite a ways to the first intersection you come to. Go just through that intersection and stop. Just to your left is a building with tan square-ish pillars and black framed windows. Over it's door on the adjacent street is a half-round silver colored overhang the revolving doors go in. There's a black sign on the front of that silver overhang and Touchdown is on top of that sign. Follow traffic into the light and go left. Pass green walls behind k-walls on your left as you go to the next light, and left again. Take a final left at the next light, where there'll be alternating orange and white k-walls to your right and scaffolding ahead to your left.  Go almost to the next light, stopping just before the phone booth on the sidewalk on the right.  

Rotate right.  You can just see a red siamese pipe against the pillar, above which is a white square sign, which is what Touchdown is centered on. Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic, and head to the nearest intersection.  Continue through to the next intersection.  Turn left, go to the next intersection.  Turn left.  Go through one intersection, and stop in the middle of the next intersection.  TO the left side you will see a trashcan with a white bag sticking out of the top.  The bear is on top. Move in the direction of traffic. Turn left at the intersection. Go straight through the next intersection. Turn left just past the construction area. Stop when the staircase with two handrails in the middle is to your right. Over the doors, there is a large octagonal emblem. Touchdown is in the middle.  Turn so you're walking with the flow of traffic into the street without median. Continue until the first intersection where you can turn left, and turn left there. Continue until you see a pile of black bags on the right sidewalk. In the middle of all the black bags will be a fire hydrant. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant. Turn so you're walking against traffic (you are impervious and shall not be harmed)

Eventually, after you pass out from under the tunnel, you will see an overhead green beam with three red lights. Walk under and past it. If you turn around and look back, you will see three green arrows on that last beam, letting you know you're about in the right place.

Walk until you're almost under the metal signs facing away from you, and at the final triangular metal bracing before where the first  blue metal rounded girders start.  Turn to your right and look upwards. 

You should see a blue metal pipe.  Touchdown is impaled on the round valve handle on that pipe. Turn and go with the flow of traffic (Bridge on right).  Continue down this road and skip 2 left turns.  After you pass the 2nd take a few steps forward.  Look left, you will be looking at the side of a blue dumpster with a red sign.  The bear is on the top middle point of the red/white sign.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic with the tarp covered dumpster behind you.
Go forward and straight through the next intersection.
Keep going forward, past what looks like a parking garage on your left that is covered with retaining poles making diamond shapes.
At the intersection past that, turn right and you will see a bright red wall up ahead on the right.
Just past that is a green retaining wall, turn right at the intersection ahead.  You should see some orange barriers on the right.  Just past the retaining wall is a blue and red circle storefront.  Above that is a blue sign with black writing on it. and where Touchdown is hiding.   Orient yourself so the overpass is to your right.  Walk down this very long street with flow of traffic.  You're getting close to the intersection when you see what looks like airplane hangers on your left, followed by a parking lot.  At that intersection, turn left.  Walk up the next intersection, much much closer than before, and turn left again.  The weird airport hanger building is on your left again.  Walk forward to get out of the intersection and look to your left.  On the ground, between two short black poles, is a black fire hydrant with a silver top.  Touchdown is on the silver part.  To orient yourself please face the same direct as traffic is moving. You will also be facing an intersection.  Proceed straight through this intersection. Go through the next two intersections. On the Third intersection, turn left. There will be a tree on the right, proceed past that until you come across a light pole past the tree on the right. Look up and Touchdown will be on the right light fixture.  position yourself so the FedEx van is on your left. Trucks in front of you and a yellow taxi to the right. Follow this road until you hit the intersection. Go left. You'll be following a white car. Go through the intersection. You will see two buses to the right. Go down until you see the all black van on your left. To the right is the old red brick apartments and some garages. Touchdown is the middle of the for rent sign.  Turn and go in the same direction as traffic, and go right at the intersection ahead. You will pass a yellow sign with a see saw on it to your left, and more further down. Finally coming to an intersection, go right. Immediately look for a very small circular sign of a panda bear on the building to your right. Going past it, stop and face the entrance to the outdoor dining area just a bit past it. The restaurant has big red lighted letters. Touchdown is sitting on top of the first flat spot on top of the first red letter.  Move in the direction of traffic. Turn right at the first intersection. Stop when you have just passed the fence on your left that is covered in what looks like apple trees. There's a speed limit sign on your right. Touchdown is in the middle of the sign. Turn and face the direction where the road has a painted red lane on both side of the streets. The left corner store will have a dark red/brown awnings over the windows. Down a little bit on the left side, there will be a store with a black awning and a red awning right next to it. Go down this road. You will have to shift to the right before heading street.  At the first intersection, you come to on the left will be flowers set up outside the store. on the right side, there will be a blue banner. Take a right at this intersection, At the next intersection takes another right. On the right corner, there is green scaffolding and green boards above it.  Move forward down this street, on the right side between the break in scaffolding, there is an entrance to a parking garage pass that. Up ahead on the right side is a yellow diamond sign with a small yellow square sign after that. The Touchdown is in the center of the diamond sign.  Put the red doors on the right.  Pass them, then take the next right.  The turn is at a bike rental area, with no bikes.  Keep the basketball courts on your left, but continue.  Pass the decorative brick on the right, and then stop.  On the wall is a rectangle and circle hole.  The bear is on the circle part.   Turn around and go with the flow of traffic.Turn right at the first traffic light. Again turn right at the next traffic light. Follow this street to the next traffic light and turn right again.Just as you come to the next intersection you will see a garbage can on your right next to a mail box. Touchdown is sitting on top of the mailbox in the center. Turn yourself so construction scaffolding is on your left and start down the street.  There will be a large gray building that looks indented on your left.  Go straight through the intersection there is a large stone monument on your right as you pass. Turn  left at intersection. You should see a red and white fire hydrant on the left corner of the intersection and head down that street.  On your left you will see to orange and white safety cones near a open doorway.  Touchdown is sitting on the sidewalk between the two cones. Turn so the nearest intersection is behind you and there is a building with faux columns to your right. Walk down the street to the first intersection and turn left.

Now you'll have a store front with grass and flowers painted on the glass windows on your left. Walk down two blocks (passing through only one intersection).

At the second intersection, turn left again. You'll have scaffolding on your left. Walk down the long block to the final intersection. Once you're in the intersection, stop and look at the right corner ahead. There's a black painted shop with a white door open. Touchdown is sitting in the open doorway on the ground. Orient yourself to proceed straight down the one way street with the orange and white mural on the right. Continue straight through the intersection with the playground on the right. Proceed straight, passing scaffolding with a green awning on the right. Approaching the intersection with the red wrap-around awning on the right corner, turn right. Proceed a quarter of the way down the block. Touchdown is on the top left corner of the green awning with yellow and white text immediately before the food box truck on the right.   Turn so the construction scaffolding is on your left, in the direction of traffic, go to next intersection and turn right. Still moving with traffic flow, go to the next intersection and go right. Again going with traffic flow, move down the road until you see a gray porta-potty with a white roof on the left. Touchdown is on top of that. Turn and walk in the same direction as traffic. You will pass a building with some V shaped pillars to your left.  At the upcoming intersection, go right. There will be a building on your left that has arch shaped windows and white globe wall lanterns. At the intersection just past this building, go left. You will immediately pass the green silhouette of a person on your right. Stop just before entering the next intersection.  Turn and look to your right.  You should see a trash can on the corner, and a row of green shrubs in gray pots along the street. Touchdown is sitting right on top of that trash can, smack in the middle.  Orient yourself with the flow of traffic, head down to the intersection, and keep right. You're going to ignore the first intersection on this street, and a few steps before the next intersection, you should see a blue flag to your top right, with a word logo on it. Touchdown is in the C of the logo Start out in the same direction as the traffic flow.  The silver scaffolding should be on your left, and a tan brick building should be on your right.  Go straight until you come to a stoplight and turn left.  Go straight for a short ways until you come to another stoplight and turn left again.  Go straight until you see an orange sign with a black arrow in front of a tall orange and white striped barrel on your right. Touchdown is sitting on top of the tall orange and white barrel.  Hello there!

1. Turn to the right until you're looking down a street with a couple of yellow and blue umbrellas on the right and a table with items for sale on the left.

2. When you reach a three-way intersection, take a right. There should be a large construction area on your right and a large stone building with columns on your left. Make sure that the median is to your left.

3. Follow this street for a while, passing through a three-way intersection on the way. Take another right at the next intersection.

4. There should now be a tan and brown building with black, violet, and yellow flags on your right. At the next intersection, take another right.

5. You should have a red and black store on your right and a gray store with many large windows on your left. You're getting close!

6. Keep an eye on the scaffolding up ahead and to the right. When you've passed that and are now even with the dark gray brick building with four pillars beyond it, stop.

7. You should see a red and white sign in one of the long windows of this building. Touchdown is in the middle of this sign.

Good luck! :) Orient yourself in the direction of the building with blue windows. Take a right at the first intersection near that building. Go straight. The building should be to your left, and skyscrapers should be ahead. Go straight past the park and take a right at the intersection. Go straight past the next intersection; scaffolding should be to your right. You are now on a street. There is scaffolding to your right. There should also be tan colored stairs to your left. Touchdown is at the base of them. Turn so the large bridge is behind you and the smaller green one is ahead.  Follow traffic under the green bridge and follow the road as it curves to the right.  Keep going until you see the road split off to the right.  Stop just after you pass the barrier that separates the little side road and then look to your right.  There is a single grey door on the brown brick building.  Touchdown is on the bright red sign under the window of that grey door.  If you can't see the door easily, follow the chain link fence and the sidewalk to the middle of the brown building. Turn so the trees and black fence are to your right. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. There should be red awnings to your right. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. There should be a yellow tree to your left. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. There should be white and orange dividers to your right. Walk down this road to the next intersection and stop before the crosswalk. Face left. There should be a blue shark on the wall. Touchdown is in the middle of the shark's mouth. Get turned so that you enter the intersection that is very close to your position. Enter the intersection then take a left turn.  After you have turned the building on the left is a brownish brick with lighter horizontal stripe accents.Go straight down this long block. Trees line the road down the whole left side. Take another left turn at the intersection. That same building with stripe accents is on your left again after you turn. There is a 3 way intersection with a road to the left. Keep going straight.  Before you reach the bigger intersection come to a stop. Look to the left there is a phone booth. There are some bikes locked up near it as well. Touchdown is on top of that phone booth.  Orient yourself so that a large construction area is on your left in front of a grocery store with a blue and yellow sign and awning. Continue straight down this street and turn right at the next intersection. You will pass under an building. Just before entering the next intersection, stop and look to the right. There are red and green marked ports on the side of the building at the corner. Touchdown is on the right most green port.  Turn so the parked bicycles are on your left and proceed to the end of the block, taking a right at the light. Take another right at the end of the next block.  Proceed until you pass the only blue entrance canvas on the right side.  Rotate right so you're facing a double glass door that you can see through the top window a tunnel of lighted arches.  To the left of that is a plan looking building side, with a granite base.  There's a red square placard behind a bronze pipe wye.  Touchdown is impaled between the two pipes. Follow traffic to the end of the block and go right, and then right again at the next block end. You should find yourself on a street with a very bright yellow storefront to your left, followed by one that's sky blue.  

Go to the end of the block and move forward to stand in the middle of the intersection.  Looking to your right, you'll see a blue mailbox covered in graffiti, to the right of a trashcan, which itself is to the right of a white pole.

Touchdown is sitting centered on top of the blue graffiti covered mailbox. Turn to face the intersection and go right.  At the end of the block, go right again.

To your left should be scaffolding with green walls and Jersey barriers in front of it, and to your right a non-descript red brick building. Ahead, you'll see trees on either side of the street.  Go to the end of the block and take one step into the intersection.

Ahead and to your left should be a business with outdoor tables, and ahead to your left a building with a very long blue overhang.  There are multiple blue circles present, but on the sign band with the large block letters is a single one at the end of the letters.

Touchdown is dead center of the blue stylized circle on the white concrete sign band. Follow the flow of traffic to the next intersection.  Take first left.  Walk against traffic until the road ends.  Turn left.  Continue just past the crosswalk at the next intersection.  You are now standing next to a car with an Uber sticker in the window.  The bear is there (Sticker).   Turn to face the way traffic is flowing. At the first intersection, take a left. As you go down the block keep an eye out for a bright red storefront/awning on the right hand side. When you see it, stop just before you reach it. You should be facing the building just before it, which has a bright red door. The touchdown is sitting in the window of the bright red door.  Face the same direction as the traffic, with the brown building with a clock at the top, in front of you on your right, and go forward. Make a right at the intersection and there will be a yellow sign up ahead. continue past it and get to the end of the block, with a blue store sign on your right. Make a right at that intersection and stop before you reach the intersection, in front of the white painted symbols on the street. There will be a blue store front to your left. Touchdown is in between the two red words of the store name. Going with the flow of traffic, proceed straight and take a left at the first intersection you come to.  Now at the next intersection you will take another left.  There will be a park on the right hand side, and you'll be going against the flow of traffic.  When you come to the t-intersection go straight, don't turn. Touchdown is hiding nearby on the left hand side.  Most of the doors have red trim, be on the lookout for first business that doesn't have a multi story building on top of it. Touchdown is hiding at the middle bottom of those two red doors. Turn so the red awning is on your right and the blue construction on your left.  Move forward a short way to the intersection and turn left.  The blue construction is on your right now.  Follow traffic down this road until you reach the next intersection. Turn left. There is a grayish building on your right, follow this road to the intersection and stop. Looking to the right,  near the corner is an orange then a yellow newspaper box, followed by a black garbage can and a street light post.   Touchdown is on the white sign on the black garbage can facing the road. Go with the flow of traffic/the direction that the parked cars are pointing. Go to the first intersection and turn right.  There will be a store with several dark blue awnings with red lettering on your left.  Go to the next intersection and turn right again. Stop right after turning right.  Look down and to your right.  On the sidewalk is a brown fire hydrant.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this hydrant.   Facing away from the close intersection, seeing bike parking to the left, go straight. Go left at the next intersection. The bldg on you right will have multiple green construction overhangs. There is an intersection right after that bldg, go left at it. A mural of a girl and some rabbits will be painted on a garage door to your right. Go straight through the next intersection. Pass 3 identical red doors on your right, then a 4th one. Past the last red door, on your left will be a storefront with a white sign. It has red and black lettering, as well as red foreign characters . Stop in front of it and face it. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the first red foreign character on the left of the sign. Orient yourself with traffic on the one way street. At the end of the block, turn left. Take another left at the next intersection. You're on another one way street and you can see purple banners hanging from a building on the left and a white and purple flag on a building up ahead on the left. Continue straight until almost reaching the next intersection but do not enter it. There is a black trash can on the right corner by a red no standing sign. Touchdown is on top of the trash can. Head toward the giant poster with superheroes on it. Go straight. Turn left at the intersection. Go straight. Stop when you are in between the glass building and the food market. On the building on your right, you will see a row of clocks. Touchdown is on the clock that is furthest to the right.  Align yourself with the flow of traffic. Head down to the intersection, making the right and then forward to get there, and then make a right. Stop just before the large glass building, the first building on this block, and you should see a black trash can next to a pedestrian light. Touchdown is on top of the trash can. This is an easy walk, just straight down the road.  From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  The green canopy should be on your left, and the red brick building on your right.  

Walk forward until you come to the edge of the red brick building and the beginning of a gray stone building.  A bit further on, you will see a building with a similar gray-stone face on the left side of the street.  

There will be a small red and white sign on a pole in front of the doorway to that building (on the left).  Touchdown the Bear is sitting on top of that sign.   Orient yourself so that you are going through the traffic light and make a right. You should see a building on your right with green awnings. Go straight down this street. You will pass a bright yellow sign and a red awning on your right. Keep going straight. When you come to the traffic light, make a right. At the next intersection, make a right. You should see a large green structure to your left. Go forward on this road. On your right you will see a green awning, on your left you will see a building That has large glass windows and what looks like pillars. Just past this building on the left you should see a brick face and a doorway. There is a red pipe coming up out of the ground by the doorway, Touchdown is sitting on top of the red pipe.  Position yourself so the short fencing and benches are on your left. Go straight through the first intersection. At the next intersection, you will be turning right, but it's a little tricky. There are two roads that go towards the right. You'll be turning on the second one, so the orange and white construction barricade will end up on your left. 

Go through the first intersection you come to on this road. At the second intersection turn right. After you turn, you will see a business with an enclosed outdoor seating area with a blue awning on your right. Go straight through the next intersection. Just before the next intersection, you will see a business on your left with green walls and awning. Directly in front of that business you'll see a tree enclosed by a short fence. Touchdown is sitting at the base of the tree.  Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic and move forward. Veer right at the first opportunity and continue moving forward. Move forward around the bend to the right and once again veer to the right given the first opportunity. Continue moving forward down the off-ramp until you reach the intersection. Take a right at the intersection and you will see scaffolding with the green awning on your left,  you should be traveling in the opposite lane of traffic. Move forward keeping an eye out for a white and green sign under the green awning of the scaffolding to your left. Stop when you're in line with the green and white sign. Turn so you are facing the sign and you will find touchdown on the bottom right corner of the sign. Go with the flow of traffic into this intersection and turn right. Go to the next intersection and turn right.  You will have a red and black building on your left with a wooden and glass door.  Up ahead on your right is a blue store.  There a grey pole on the curb that has a blue stripe in front of this store.  Touchdown is on top of the grey pole. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and facing the intersection.  Go through it.  
At the next intersection, go straight again.  This intersection has a yellow sign with black text and images on your right.
At the next intersection you'll see a short building with a lot of red banners on it.  Turn left here.
Go straight and you'll pass a white van that is flanked by two orange cones.
A bit passed that on your left you should see 3 sets of stairs leading up to doors.  The first door is green, second brown, 3rd dark brown with a gold mail slot.  Touchdown is on the gold mail slot. you will be heading down a one way street, there is scaffolding on the left and the stairs to the subway to the right, you will pass a building with tall archways. This is a long street, follow it to the next intersection.  After you enter the intersection but before going all the way through, there is a green trashcan on the corner on the left, the bear is on that can Turn so that the blue brick wall is to your left. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. You should see a giant advertisement with a watch on it in front of you and buildings under construction in the distance. Walk down this road past the brick building on your right. There should be an entrance to the glass building to your right. Step through the entrance to toward the low glass building on the right. Before you step through past the gate look at the glass bulb on top of the concrete post nearest to you in the same section as the skinny bushes on your left. Touchdown is in this bulb. Orient yourself so you are moving in the same direction as the cars.  Walk forward to the first intersection.  Continue straight through this intersection, ignoring the small jumps you might make while doing so.  Keep going as straight as possible.  Part way down this block, a row of white pole barriers will appear, and you'll have the choice to veer to the left or go more straight.  Choose the more straight option. At the next intersection, you'll get the same "veer left or go more straight" and you should continue going more straight.  Continue straight, you'll be in a lane that turns to the right.  Follow it.  It will straighten out and there will be a concrete median on your left that has a few trees planted in it.  Keep going straight, and the road will curve again to the right, merging with another lane of traffic.  Once it has merged, look ahead and you should see a brown overpass that has 2 diamond shaped signs on it.  Walk to the space directly under the diamond sign that's in your lane.  Look to your left.  There are three concrete columns that support the overpass on the median between you and the lane to your left.  Touchdown is on the base of the middle column. Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. An intersection should be right ahead of you, and beyond that, the road that you're on should curve to the left.

2. Move into this intersection and go straight, following the aforementioned curve. Follow this road for a while, keeping the park to your left.

3. When you reach the next intersection (a three-way), take a left. Your destination is close.

4. Follow the curve in this road to the left, as if you're going around to the other side of the park. Immediately after merging with a lane on the right, look to your right.

5. Make sure that you're even with a tall silver pole that's in front of a large stone building with several columns. In about the middle of this pole is a little offshoot. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the horizontal part of this offshoot.

Good luck! :) Going with the flow of traffic, go to the next intersection and take a left turn. The scaffolding should be on your right and building with arches for doors should be on your left.  Go straight to the next intersection and stop.  On the traffic light post ahead on the right there is a bright orange sign.  Touchdown is hiding on the orange sign. Start down the street the same direction as traffic. Continue straight through the first intersection. You will pass a long row of bikes to your left, continue to the end. At the end of the row of bikes is a meter machine, Touchdown is sitting on top.    Follow traffic to the light, the orange fencing to your right, and go left. Go left again at the next light. Stop after passing the first red flag on your right, but before the second, such that you're between the two. Rotate left.

There is a square white sign with blue text and fill on a pole to the right of a vendor cart directly in front of you. Touchdown sits centered atop the sign. Go with traffic flow and turn right at the corner about a block down. 

Go up to the next corner a short ways in front of you and turn right. When you turn there is a yellow garage door to your left with a human painted on it from the waist up with a bare chest. 

Go down this road. About halfway down is a blue trimmed building on the left with many gray garbage cans in front of it's steps. Keep going, passing the gray building on the left. On the right you are passing a green fence. Up ahead is a yellow diamond sign on the right with a smaller square yellow speed sign below it. A bit beyond this is a motorcycle with a silver cover on the right, and just beyond that is a light colored hydrant that Touchdown is on top of.

 Align yourself so the white tipped bells on the median are on your left. Head straight through the first intersection, and make a left at the second. Go straight through the next intersection very shortly after. Head down this very small road to make a left. You should have empty bike racks on your right down this street. Stop in the middle of the bike racks, and on your left you should see a blue garbage bin near the curb. Touchdown is on top of the blue bin. Align yourself with the flow of traffic in your lane. Take a right at the first intersection, and another right at the next intersection.

Right before the next intersection, you should see a seated bus stop with a cover on your right. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the red sign at this bus stop. Align yourself with the flow of traffic via the parked cars. The faded red awning should be on your left. Head to the first intersection, and make a left.

Shortly after, make another left at the next intersection. You should pass a fenced in court on your right. Head down until you see a hydrant with two poles on your right. There should be a black dumpster on the sidewalk and a moped in front of it on your left.

Touchdown is on the silver tip of the hydrant. Going with the flow of traffic in your lane, you'll have trees directly to your right.   Go to the first intersection and take a right. The business to your right has stars on their signs.  Go to the next intersection and take a right. There's tan awnings to your right.  Go to the next intersection and take a right.  Near the end of this block will be a yellow dumpster.  Just before you get to it will be a ladder and a traffic cone.  Touchdown is on top of the traffic cone. Turn and follow traffic down the street. There will be tables on your right.Construction on your left.Turn right at the intersection.  Turn right at intersection. Scaffolding on the left. Turn right at intersection. You will see a fire hydrant to the right. Touchdown is sitting on top.  Orient yourself with the flow of traffic and so the green construction wall is on your left. Proceed straight through the first intersection and turn left at the second intersection. Turn left at the next intersection. Pass a gothic style church made of stone on your left with flags hanging outside. Turn left at the next available street, and go forward three paces. Touchdown is on the red hazardous materials sign over the diamond.  Rotate to face the nearest intersection.

Proceed to the intersection
Turn right at the intersection

Proceed to the next intersection
Turn right at the intersection

Proceed forward toward the next intersection.
On the left side of the street near the intersection is a single thin tree.
Stop as close to the small tree as possible

The bear is sitting in the dirt near the tree, on the visible corner of the dirt.


 Put the white SUV with the open door on your left and move forward. Take a right at the first intersection. As you approach a row of three cars, with a white policee SUV being the last in the row, Touchdown is sitting at the base of a small tree before the row begins. Going with the flow of traffic, go to the stoplight and turn left.  You'll have traffic barriers on your right. Go straight through the next stoplight.  Go to the next intersection and take a left turn.  There will be scaffolding on your right.  Touchdown will be at the base of the first tree on your left in the sidewalk. turn and face towards the intersection putting a food cart of the right of you. Continue through this first intersection and at the second intersection, there is a building with green covers over the windows and door on the upper right corner. Take a left at this intersection There will be a large phone booth on the left side after making the turn. At the next intersection make another left turn. Going down this street, there will be a purple  and a a green portapotty on the left side behind some concrete barriers on the left side of the street. Continue down this street taking a left at the next intersection. On the right side of the road there will be a green trashcan next to a large empty white container. The Touchdwon is on top of the green trashcan.  Follow traffic to the first intersection (there will be a fenced in park to your right) where you can go left, and go left.

Go left when you reach the next intersection, as well.

To your right will be a building with a green overhang, and an elegant grey bricked building with long blue banners.  Walk until there's a bus stop with yellow posters just ahead and to your right, and turn so you're facing left.  You should see a black metal pole with a blue band at the top of it.

The touchdown is sitting on this small pole. (You'll see stairs behind it, if that helps you get your bearings.) Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Go through the first intersection.  At the second intersection, turn right.
The storefront on your left has a blue banner with white writing, to your right, the name of the store will be in white text with two letters in blue.
Start moving down this street.  You should see scaffolding ahead on the left.
Past that, you'll see a sign on the right sticking out that is black with red neon lighting.  
Touchdown is at the bottom of that sign. Stand so that the intersection is to your back. Move forward, going with the flow of traffic. You'll pass yellow caution tape on your right, then an area with a short black gate. Continue in this direction until you pass a row of bikes on your left. Stop just before entering an intersection. Ahead on the corner to your left is a bright blue awning. Touchdown is on the center of the awning. Orient yourself with traffic and proceed forward. Go through the first intersection, then turn left at the next intersection. Go through the next intersection. Stop just before a white van parked on the left with no cars behind it. A sign behind the van has a woman in black on it. Touchdown is trying to be her hat. First take a look around, you should see an area that has scaffolding and green board. If you position yourself facing the line of the parked cars, the bridge you are on will be on your left and the greenboard with scaffolding will be on your right side. The end of the scaffolding section is where we want to go. 
1. follow the arrow to the exit of the bridge
2. follow the exit and get off the bridge, heading to the intersection ahead of you. 3. At one point before you reach the intersection, there will be an arrow showing up to let you go back-right direction.
4. click the arrow to go back and then all the way back until you see the orange color fence to your right , you will be facing the entrance of it.
5. There are few signs on the entrance. There is a sign that is black with red letters on it. The touch down is on that sign.  Face the intersection so that you can boats ahead.  Go into the intersection and take a right turn.  There will be trees in the median to your left.  At the first intersection and take a right turn.  At the next intersection, take a right turn.  You will have scaffolding on your right. When you get near the next intersection, Touchdown will be on your right on top of a fire hydrant. Orient yourself with traffic and proceed. Turn right at the first light. Turn right again at the next light. Pass scaffolding on your left and then stopping in front of a building with two tall black metal parking doors on the right. Touchdown is on the seat of a green motorbike to your right. Orient yourself so you are moving down the street the same way the cars are faced.  Proceed to the intersection, and turn right, and continue following the traffic to the next intersection.  Turn right, and head down the tree lined street that has a store on the left covered with a line green awning.  Continue down the road, passing the church on the right, and look ahead on the right for a large american flag hanging from a building.  Walk past that flag, and look for two identical brown awnings on your left.  Stand directly in front of the building with identical brown awnings, and look at the second row of windows.  On the far right side is an air conditioner.  Touchdown is sitting on the window air conditioner. Align yourself so the ramp on the building is on your right. Head up to the intersection to make a right, and you'll make a left at the next. There should be a colorful storefront with petals on your right as you make the turn. Head in to the intersection, and make a single right. You'll see on your left a bunch of hearts with a red sign in the middle of them. Touchdown is in the middle of the sign. Turn so you're facing the same direction as the cars on the road. There will be a sign that has office supplies on it to your right. Walk down through the intersection. 

After you cross over the intersection, start paying attention to the left side of the road. There will be a lighted red and white sign coming up. The store next door has two neon signs. Touchdown is on the very bottom of the smaller, newer looking sign. He covers the multi-colored part.
 Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  Ahead you should see a red awning on the right and a flag up ahead on your left.

Go forward into the intersection ahead and turn right.  Go forward to the next intersection and turn right again.  Once you turn, on the right you should see a black building with gold lettering.  Go down this street.  Stop at the red awning on the left.

Touchdown is at the top of the front side of the awning (top of the arc). Go with traffic, with the park to your right, and proceed through 3 lights.  You'll come to blue awnings with golden glyphs and then ones with white letters on your right.  Keep going, until you see a single yellow metal door inset on a completely black stone building, with a grey brick second story.

Rotate left.  Touchdown is atop the white cap of the hydrant. Turn so that the blue tarp covered dumpster is to your right. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left. There should be a bunch of scaffolding to your left. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left. There should be a brick building to your right and scaffolding to your left. Walk forward past the crosswalk and strop right before the orange construction fence. Looking at the orange fence you should see an orange sign with a large black arrow. Touchdown is at the tip of the arrow. Face yourself so that you have a grassy area and a short black fence to your left. Go straight until you come to an intersection. Take a right and now you should have a store with a red, white and blue awning on your left. There will be cars parked on both sides and trees lining both sides of the street. Go straight. Go past the playground on your left. At your very next intersection turn right. There should be blue fire escape stairs on the building on your left. Go straight to the next light.  At the intersection walk into the middle of the intersection and look to your left. There will be scaffolding with a green awning. There is green trashcan directly on the corner. Touchdown is sitting on the green trash can. Hello. Please orient yourself with the tall bridge on your left side. You will be following the flow of traffic. There will be tall black fences on your right side leading to more parking lot areas. 

Walk forward into the three-way intersection. Turn left.

You will be passing underneath the bridge. 
At the four-way intersection shortly ahead, turn left again.

You will see very tall fences to your right side. The bridge is on your left side. 

Walk forward until you reach a three-way intersection. Turn left once more.

You will be passing underneath the bridge again. There will be tall green fences to your right side. 

Walk forward until you reach the next intersection. Move into the center of the intersection. Please stop at the center. To your right, next to a tall lightpole and two small silver poles, you will see a black fire hydrant with a silver top. 

Touchdown will be on the silver top of the black fire hydrant. Good luck! Turn so that the blue dumpster and orange barriers are to your right and proceed straight ahead.
Continue straight ahead through the first intersection.
You will shortly notice a fenced in area to your right, when the fence ends you will see a side street that you will make a right turn onto.

You should now notice a small park to your left. Go straight down this short block and make another right turn at the corner.

You now have barriers to your left and fenced in construction area to your right .
Continue straight down this block until the barriers to the left end. Look right and see the fire hydrant on the broken piece of sidewalk, Touchdown is atop the hydrant.

 Orient yourself so you are moving against the flow of traffic so that you have scaffolding on your right and a brick building with a black storefront on your left.
Head down this road and turn left at the first intersection.  You will then have red awnings to your left and a red brick building to your right.
Head down this road and you should eventually find a long row of empty bike parking slots and a bright green storefront on the left with black awnings.
On the corner to your right ahead of you, you will find Touchdown on top of the fire hydrant. Go straight in the direction of traffic and take a right at the intersection with two red signs. Proceed down the alley until to the left of a dark pickup truck with a covered flatbed to the right.  Touchdown is sitting on the hood of the pickup truck. Face in the direction of traffic and walk forward to the intersection. Turn right so you have the white painted storefront with the black awning to your left. Walk straight down the street through the first intersection. At the second intersection, turn left so you are still walking in the direction of traffic. On your right side, there's a bank with a red sign and blue lettering. There's two shop fronts next to each other, then a place with a large red awning and an image of glasses on it. Touchdown is over the left lens on the pair of glasses that does not have any lettering on top of it. Follow traffic through the light, where you see a green facade ahead to the right, and go left at the next light.  The building on the right corner will have an emblem of  two white triangles touching in a red shape. At the next light, go left. You'll see umbrellas on your right and scaffolding ahead on your left. Go through the next light.  Stop just before the crosswalk going into the next one. Rotate right.

Touchdown is on the white bus in the blue and red circle on the pole. Turn so that the trees with the purple lights are on your right. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left. There should be a large red heart to your right. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left. Blue and yellow umbrellas should be in front of you to the right. Walk forward down the street and stop right before you reach the green scaffolding past the little eating park area. You should see a small red sign on a pole to your right. Touchdown is in the middle of the sign. Go into the intersection very close to you. Make a right turn. Once you have turned the building on the left has arches over the windows. Go straight to the next intersection. Turn right. Once you make the turn you will see 2 green mailboxes on the left side. Go straight all the way to the end of this block. Stop just before you enter the intersection. Look on the corner to the right and find the blue mailbox. Touchdown is on top of that mailbox. GO WITH traffic, passing a very bright yellow building on your right on your way to the end of the block. Don't pass the crosswalk. Rotate right. You should be facing huge white dimension latters, with a glowing blue round emblem with an empty square in its middle in front of you. Touchdown is centered in square. Turn and go in the same direction of the traffic. Turn right at intersection. Green awning to the right.  There is some scaffolding to the right with green boards. At the end is a white nad brown sign and touchdown is sitting in the circle on the right.  Stand so you are facing the busy street, and cross it. Continue in this direction, passing under the overpass, until you reach an intersection. Turn right. Immediately there will be a green store front with a tree in front of it. Touchdown is at the base of the tree. Turn so that the tall apartment blocks are on your right. Continue forward until you get to an intersection with traffic lights, then turn right. Continue forward and go straight at the next intersection. Just past the intersection on the left there will be a yellow compressor hooked up to a truck. Touchdown is sitting next to the tire of the compressor facing the white line. Orient yourself with traffic, proceed to the light, and turn right. At the first light, turn right again. Stop next too the tree adjacent to the bus stop on the right. Touchdown is in the center seat of the bench in the bus stop. Stand with the brick buildings to your right, moving with the flow of traffic. At the  first intersection take a left. Now move ahead to the next intersection and turn left again (passing the gray building with colorful rectangles on your right side). Continue on this narrow road until you are almost at the start of scaffolding on your right. In the street, on the small white fence is a small orange sign. Touchdown is on the orange sign. Turn so your moving with the flow of traffic. Take a left at the first intersection. Move down the block and at the next intersection turn left again. You should have some construction scaffolding on your right. When the scaffolding ends, you are getting close. You should see some trees planted on the right in front of the buildings. Stop when your right in front of the purple sign on a black street pole with a plant on the pole underneath it. Touchdown is in the center of the sign.  Align yourself so the steel wall is on your left, and ignore the first two right turns, to take a right at the intersection after. You'll head straight through one intersection on this road, and straight through the left turn, and the right turn. You'll approach the intersection and across the street to your right should be a single blue rental bike. Touchdown is on the seat of the bike. Align yourself with the blue tarped dumpster on your right, and the scaffolding on your left. Head to the intersection and make a right, then another right at the next intersection.

Head down the road until you see an empty lot on your right, and just past this empty lot a few entrances down, there will be a blue skeleton leaning on a wall and a blue bag. It will be in between two grey garbage bins, and two blue recycling bins. Touchdown is sitting on the skeletons head. Orient yourself with traffic on the one way street. At the end of the block, turn right. Turn right again at the next intersection. You'll be on another one way street with a makeup store on your left and a cafe in a dark yellow and red building on your right. Continue until you reach the green and blue scaffolding on the left just after a sandwich shop. There is a bicycle with a basket tied up to one of the scaffolding poles. Touchdown is on the basket. Move with the traffic flow so that you are farther into the intersection and take a right turn. Now you should be on the left side of the street (moving against traffic), with scaffolding directly to your left. Continue in this direction, passing straight through a 4-way opportunity to turn. Then at the 3-way, turn right. Continue straight through the immediate 4-way turn, then follow the road as it curves right.
Now you should be on the right side of a street, with a short black fenced area with plants in the median portion of sidewalk to your right. Continue straight and stop just before the intersection. On your right is a streetlight pole with 2 green signs and a small white and red sign. Touchdown is on the white sign. Follow the flow of traffic, with tennis courts on your right and water on your left. Move toward the bridge, passing the white building on your right, along with the brown/white building and stopping before reaching the bridge, when you are near the building that is under construction. On your right, below the brown building that is under construction, there is blue scaffolding. In front of the blue scaffolding, you will see the top of a silver street light pole. Touchdown is on the light part of that street light pole. Orient yourself to go in the same direction as traffic and head straight under the bridge.  Turn left at the stop signs, going in the same direction as traffic.  You should have some green scaffolding on your right and the overpass on the left.  Go straight and turn left again going back under the bridge.  Continue forwards through the traffic lights.  There should be a parking lot  on the right, stop when you get to the entrance to the parking lot.  Touchdown bear is in the center of the white rectangular sign on the fence to the left side of the parking lot entrance.    Stand facing the same direction as the cars, with the green awnings to your left and stop before you reach the second intersection. On your left, there will be a white building with green signs. At the corner of that building, there is a silver pole with the street signs. Touchdown is at the tip of the arrow on the black and white rectangular sign on that pole. Go down the street where the colorful dragon painted on the shipping container is on your right.
Turn right at the first intersection.
Keep straight a cross at the next intersection.  A yellow cafe will be on the right corner next to a gray building.
Go straight at the next intersection.
Straight again at the next intersection.
Look left and stop next to the neon yellow traffic cone before the next intersection. Touchdown is sitting on top of the neon yellow traffic cone.

 Turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  You should be facing an intersection.  The shop with red lettering should be on your right.  

Move straight forward through the intersection, so that the park stays on your left and the shop with the blue-ish sign and white letters stays on your right.  Keep moving forward until you come to the next intersection.  

Stop and turn to your left.  There should be blue fences around subway entrances on both sides of the street.  Walk down this street between the blue fences, and just keep going straight.  Eventually, you will approach an intersection with traffic lights.  

Stop just before you come to the crosswalk, and take a look around.  On the corner, to your left, there is a black fire hydrant with a silver cap.  Touchdown the Bear is sitting on top of this hydrant. Turn so that the basketball hoop is on your left. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left. Large white columns should be on your left. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left. You should see a subway entrance with two green and yellow balls in front of you to the right. Walk forward down the street. Do not turn down the side streets. Once you reach the end of the street turn left. The divider with trees should be on your right. Walk forward until you reach the rainbow flags on the left. Face right. You should see a little wheel chair sign on the fence. Touchdown is in the middle of the sign. Align yourself so the white building with the red stripe at the top is on your left. There will some traffic cones on the left as well. Head up to the intersection to make a left, shortly after, you'll make another left. There should be scaffolding with orange and white construction barriers underneath it to your right now. Head down to the left scaffolding and stop just before the park sign on the scaffolding, in front of the blue bike racks. Touchdown is on the arrow of the park sign on the scaffolding. From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  You should see orange and white barrels on your left. 

Walk forward a short distance and stop in the middle of the intersection.  Turn to your right so that you are looking down a narrow street with some orange construction barriers up ahead.  Walk straight down this street until it ends.  

When you come out on the other side, turn to your right, so that the storefront with the pink lettering is on your left.  You should be facing the headlights of oncoming traffic.  

Walk straight down this road (against traffic) and stop in the middle of the next intersection.  Turn to your right, and look down another narrow street.  This one will have a brown shop front on the left, with an orange awning and sign.  Walk down this street, keeping the orange awning on your left.  Pass two yellow minivans parked on the left, and stop when you reach a row of orange barrels and cones on the left side of the street.  

Touchdown the Bear is on top of an orange port-a-potty, behind those orange barrels. Rotate around so there are storefronts to your right, and apartments and a small playground to the left.
Travel  to the traffic light ahead and Turn Right.
Travel down this one way street passing  through the first small intersection, at the other side of this intersection there is a Church to the left, continue going forward and passing under one traffic light , and stopping just short of the second.
Look to your right and see the fire hydrant on the sidewalk of this triangular island, Touchdown is sitting atop the hydrant Going with the flow of traffic take a right at the stop light that you are very close to. Where the building with arched window architecture at the second set of lights, take a right.  Go to the next intersection, Touchdown is sitting on the mailbox on the left hand side. Face the same direction of the traffic, with the blue benches on your right, go to the end of the block and make a right. Follow the park on your left and make a right at the curve. Pass the black fire hydrant on your right and stop when you get to the gray door on the brown building. Touchdown is on the little light above that door. Stand so you that you are facing a 3-way intersection right in front of you. Move forward, passing straight through that intersection, and continue until you reach a 4-way intersection. Turn left, and move to the next intersection. Turn left again. Continue down this street until you come to a 3-way intersection; you have the option to veer right. At this spot there is an orange porta-potty to your right. Touchdown is on top. Align yourself with the bridge on your left, and head through the first intersection, straight. Ignore the right turn as well, and make a right at the 4 corner intersection ahead.

Head down to the next intersection, and make another right. Make a final right at the next intersection, there should be scaffolding with an orange sign before it. Take a couple steps in and on your right, you should see the first parked van. On the front of the van is the company symbol of the van. touchdown is in the middle of it. Align yourself with the flow of traffic. At the first intersection you run in to, take a left. Follow this road to the next inersection. Once you reach the area to make a choice to turn one of 4 ways, go back 1 step the way you came. You should see some police blockades in front of the restaurant. Touchdown is on the Y of the first square blockade in a line. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Go forward until the \ intersection and turn left. Move ahead, passing the orange cone section, and then you will come to a white stone/brick building on your right. Touchdown is on the top center of the green dumpster just past it. Align yourself so that the salon is on your left and the brown papered windows is on your right.  Go straight down this long block until you get to the intersection and take a right turn. You'll see blue awnings on your left. Go to the next intersection and turn right.  There will be a parked marroon van on your right, when you pass it there will be two rectangular vents on the sidewalk.  Touchdown is sitting between those two vents.  Face in the same direction as traffic on this one-way road. Walk to the intersection and turn left. You should see a series of US flags ahead on the left.

Walk past the scaffolding on the right. You'll go past two stretches of it. After the second area of scaffolding, keep looking to the right. You'll see a phone booth, then a light post with a basket of flowering greenery on it. Touchdown is on top of this greenery, lined up with the pole.

 Walk against traffic with the red stripe to your left, towards the intersection. You will suddenly find yourself with orange construction barrels to your left and a building with green awning to your right.  The building behind the orange barrels has a fire escape. There is a window with an air conditioner at the base of the ladder on the escape. Touchdown is in the center of it. Face the road so that the building with the wall of white pillars will be ahead on your right.  No turn and go in the exact opposite direction. Walking ahead, you will see a picture of a lady on a green post on your left.  Walk past it, continuing to the first intersection you come to.  Go straight across, soon passing an American flag hanging from a building on your right. Turn left at the intersection, onto a narrow street. There is an orange sign in the window on your left. Go to the next intersection, first passing a row of flags on your right. In the middle of the intersection turn and walk left, yet staying in the intersection. Before fully turning, you will see a garbage can directly in front of you, at the corner store with black awnings to your left. Touchdown is on the ground directly in front of that garbage. Align yourself with the parked blue van on your left. Ignore the first couple intersections, and go all the way up the street until you hit the four intersection. take a step back from the four turns, On your right, You'll see a small red news stand box. Touchdown is sitting on top of the red box. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and there is a red awning on the right.  Turn right at this intersection using the arrow right most and forward.  You should move to a different street and have three cones in front of you.  Move forward around the bend and going into a tunnel.  Eventually you will have to go left, putting you back on surface streets.  You will see a red awning on your right jutting out. Head forward, past some barriers on the right and a tarp covered dumpster on the left.  Turn right just past the dumpster.  Head forward past the scaffolding and stop when you're at the yellow awning on your right.  Just ahead of that is a blue awning with a red and white banner above it.  You will find Touchdown at the bottom of this banner. To your right should be two large brick buildings which appear to tower beside each other. On either side you'll see which appears to be large glass buildings. To your left is a large square shaped wall that is white and made of black. Go straight on the street. You will pass an intersection where you can only turn right however you want to continue straight. After continuing straight you will have an option to veer left however you will still continue straight. This option happens at a sign that is white with a red circle in white letters.
You will see to your right a large white building with a curved top. At this point you will also have an option to veer backwards to your left. Please do that, now you should have a large building to your left that is white and made of large squares. If you are facing straight you are facing the direction traffic will be coming toward you and there is a sign in the grass sticking up. Touchdown is directly in front of the sign. In the air not on the ground. Face the flow of traffic that puts bikes on your right.

Go forward through the first intersection.  At the second intersection, turn left.  You'll see a taxi coming at you.  Go forward until you pass a yellow awning on your left next to a red door, which is next to a grey door.

Touchdown is on the bronze item in the middle of this grey door. Orient yourself in the direction of traffic. Take a right at the intersection. Go straight until reaching the next intersection. Take a right. go straight until reaching the flags to the left. Touchdown is on the white flag. Turn until the hanging triangle flags are to your right. Walk forward until you reach the next four way intersection and turn left. There should be an orange sign in front of you to the left. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left. You should see three red and blue signs with stars in front of you to your right. Walk forward until you see a large orange cylinder with green paint on it to your right. Stop just right before you pass it. Touchdown is sitting on top of the cylinder. You should be facing a lime green car and there should be a beverage delivery van on your right. Go straight until you reach the first intersection. Turn right, and there will be a construction type tunnel on the sidewalk on the right. Go straight passing a delivery truck. Right past the truck is an intersection, turn right. Go straight, you will pass some outdoor seating on the right with a maroon canopy.  Right past the seating will be a very colorful delivery truck. There is gift bags on the side of the truck. The touchdown will be on the red letter of the name of the company on the top left of the truck. Turn so that the big pile of trash bags is on your left, and that you are going with the flow of traffic. Go straight until you finally reach an intersection. Turn left. Go straight until you come to another intersection.  Go straight through the intersection, and then stop at the crosswalk on the other side.  Look to your right.  There is a black and white sign with an arrow on a pole.  Touchdown is on the pointy part of the arrow. Turn so the lit up potted trees are to your left. At the next intersection, go right. At the following intersection, go right again. There will be black, gold and white decorated windows on the building to your right. Go to the next intersection and go right. There is a window of taxi cabs directly to your left after turning. Looking ahead, see the 2 black and white lanterns just ahead of you on the left, on a building. Just before reaching them, turn to look at them and see Touchdown on the very top center of the first one.  Follow the flow of traffic and turn right at the next intersection. Go straight through the next intersection and keep going. You will see two flags on your right. The touchdown is on the base of the flagpole for the American flag. Follow traffic forward and go left at the nearby intersection.  At the light, go left. Go left again when you see scaffolding to your right, so you're just standing in the little section, not on either crosswalk, but where you can turn to your right and look at the flowers and trees past the hexagonal cobblestones on the median.  You should see a red metal bollard.  Touchdown is on top of it. With the parked construction equipment to your right, go to the intersection and turn right. You will go straight through the first light.  At the next stop sign, go straight.  Go past the food carts on the right and you'll see a bike on the right next to a pole.  Look ahead also on the right is a fire hydrant.  Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant. Turn so the intersection is right in front of you. Turn left at that intersection. When you turn the bank with green lettering will be on your right. Go with traffic flow quite a ways down. Go through the intersection to the next one. Then turn left. When you turn you will see green and blue umbrellas to your right.
Go forward to the crosswalk just before the next intersection. 
Up head to the right you will see a brick building with red lettering for the business. Touchdown is on that first red C of the business. 
 Turn so you are facing the archway. Walk forward so you are standing in front of the archway. Turn left before the archway and go down this road. When you reach the end of the road you should be facing the water and be in front of the overpass. Turn left. Walk down this street. Keep an eye on the advertisements to your left on the scaffolding. Stop when you are in front of the advertisement with the picture of the pool on it. Touchdown is in the middle of the picture of the pool. Turn with the flow of traffic and head to the nearest intersection.  Then turn left, then the next left, followed by the next left.  Continue into the same intersection that you started at, but stop.  When in the middle of the intersection, look for the corner with the yellow magazine case.  Bear is on top of the dark yellow case. Follow the flow of traffic, with the nearest intersection behind you and make a right at the first traffic light, where you have benches on your left. Continue past the blue awning on your left and make your last right at the intersection ahead. There will now be a white storefront with black letters on your left. Continue past it and stop when you reach the white/beige building with black framed windows on your right. On your left, there will be a small tree in a green planter. Touchdown is at the base of the tree, in the planter. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, you should be in front of an intersection. Go forward, ignoring this intersection, and take a right at the next one. Take another right at the next instance, ignore the first intersection, and go in to the next intersection. Make one left, and look to your back left to see a sign on a green  painted building. Touchdown is on the big O on the sign at the top of the building. Turn so the big open garage doors are on your right and ahead of you on the left are green construction walls.  Go forward to the intersection and turn right.  
Now you'll have construction barriers and fences on your left side.  Go straight through one intersection.  At the next intersection, turn right and then immediately stop.  You'll still actually be standing in the intersection when you stop (crosswalk just ahead of you). Facing the direction you would be going if you continued, you have a red bus lane on your right side.  On the corner to your right are three square planters.  The left and right ones are empty, and the center one has a small bush in it.  The bear is on top of this bush. Orient yourself in the direction of traffic. Go straight through the first light and then take a left at the second light. Go straight until you reach the corner of the domed building to your left. There are some chairs in the park to the right. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the farthest chair. Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Head to the nearest intersection.  Turn right.  Then take the next right.  You will see blue flags on the building to your right.  Continue down this road, and take the 1st right.  On your right is a coffee shop.  Above the sign is a cup of coffee.  The bear is sitting in the coffee cup on the right.   Turn and walk the same direction as the traffic. There should be multiple white vans on your left.  Pass by parked horse and carriages. Pass the large yellow building on your left. Immediately after the building, turn left at the intersection. Stop just before entering the next intersection.  You should see a bridge over the road on the opposite side. Look to your left and see an orange cone next to a green garbage can. Touchdown is sitting on the garbage can. Turn and go the same direction as traffic is going. Go left a the upcoming intersection. A black building with blue lights will immediately be on your right. Go left at the next intersection. To your left will be a gray building with yellow lights. Walk ahead.  You will see a red and white diagonal lined mural on a building on your right.  Keep going. Before getting to the intersection ahead, notice a row of bike racks ahead on your left. Stop far enough before them to be directly in front of the doors of a building on your left with gold colored railings as the overhang. Looking at this door, there will be a white circle with a letter in it on the black awning. Touchdown is in the middle of that circle.  Head down the road the same way cars are going. Turn left at the intersection. There will be scaffolding with a green cover on the left. Go straight for one block. Turn left again. There is a red brick building to your left and a brown storefront on the right with some orange on it. Go just a little way down this street.  On the right side of the road you will see a storefront that has yellow on it with thin darker red or burgundy stripes and a darker red awning that goes out to the edge of the side walk. Touchdown is on the front of the awning right in the middle. Turn to face the yellow sign, then go forward as straight as you can here. Now go to the end of the block, and into the next intersection. There should be a building with columns in front of the door on your left--now turn left, and go forward two blocks, the road should branch and there should be a clock tower visible in front of you in the distance. Take the left branch, to the end of the triangular area between the branches. On your right is an outdoor seating/dining area, with some potted plants next to it. Touchdown is on the ground in front of the closest potted plant on the left. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and go straight through the next intersection, keeping the raise freeway on your left.  Go past the 3-way intersection that leads left and turn left at the next intersection that has large orange and white cone barriers.
Head under the raised freeway and turn left again.
Move forward slightly until you're between the black boarded up area and the silver fenced enclosure on your right.
Touchdown is on the red sign nearest to the black boarded up enclosure. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the fenced-in area on your left. Continue forward to the next intersection and take a right. You should see a grassy area with a low black fence on your left. Continue forward going straight past the first intersection and take a right at the second intersection. You should now see a bluish gray brick building on your right and a median with trees to your left. Move forward so you are just passed the bluish gray brick building to your right. Go forward and to the left so that you change lanes. Stop immediately and turn to your right and you will see a black fire hydrant. Touchdown is sitting atop the black fire fire hydrant. If you are in the correct position there is a black fence to your left with lots of trees in it. To your right or brick buildings. Please head straight down the street. Go through the first intersection but continue straight.
When you reach the next intersection make a right. If you turn right on the correct street there will be a blue building with a wooden door on your right hand side.
Continue straight until you reach the next intersection then turn right.
You will pass several brick buildings you will find one that has a silver trashcan on the right and a green trashcan on the left the building is also on the right and there is a green door in between the two trash cans touchdown is sitting directly in front of the green door on the ground. If you reach the next intersection you've gone too far. Stand with the bike racks on your right. Move forward until you reach an intersection, and turn left. Now on your right is a building with bright lighted writing on the sign. Move ahead to the next intersection and take another left. Pass a small patio area with trees that have lights on them on your right. Move forward a bit until you are past the patio area, and stop. Look behind you and there is a black fire hydrant on the right side. Touchdown is on the fire hydrant. Situate yourself so the piece of art made from multi-colored people shapes is on your right. Go to the first corner, which is a 3-way, and turn left. Up ahead you can see a light green walkway between the buildings. Go up to almost going under that. There will be a huge pile of garbage bags on the left side in front of a wall with two levels of blue panels and white panels on top of it. There is a tree right before the garbage bags on the right. Touchdown is at the base of the tree. Turn away from the closest intersection and go the same direction as traffic. You should see a window up to your left with red, blue and green diamond shapes. Go through the next intersection. You will immediately pass small green area on your right behind an iron fence. At the next intersection, go right. Once again, a small green area surrounded by iron fence will be to your right, with a large brick building beyond it. As you pass by the building, you will see it's Gothic type entryway. Keep going straight. A little further on, you will see a small section of white wall on a building on your right. Go past it. Ahead on your right you will see a green overhang that is farther out than the rest. Stop after you pass the overhang, and turn to look at the building. See fake tombstones in front of the building behind the iron fence. Touchdown is sitting right on top of the tombstone on the left.  Follow traffic, with the scaffolding to your left and the orange traffic barriers to your right and go through the first light.  As you come to the second, you'll pass four vertical red banners with white text on your right.

Stop when you're exactly at where the brown building meets the final grey building on the left and rotate to face it and the bike rental area.  Above and left of the window on the grey building is a black floodlight. Touchdown is adhered to the center of it. Move down the road with the traffic flow, through the first intersection to the next. At the corner, turn left so the red building is on your right and construction scaffolding on the left. Move forward with traffic flow. Continue until you see many water bottles loaded on the street on the left. Touchdown is on top of the pile of water bottles. Go with the flow of traffic to the intersection and turn right. There will be outside seating (white tables) on your left. Go straight past the street to your left.   You'll have scaffolding on your left. At the next light, take a right turn.  The windows on your right are papered over.  At the next intersection, turn right.  There will be scaffolding on your left.  Midway down the block, you'll see an aqua blue awning on your right.  Touchdown is on the center door handles of this business. Turn so the median is on your left and sidewalk on your right. Right away take a minor right turn. There will be black awnings on your right. Continue down this road to the next intersection that is right after the road barriers on your left. Turn right at the intersection. When you turn you will see an American and blue state flag flying on your right.
Go to the next intersection and turn right. There will be trees to the right and fencing to the left.
Go down to the next intersection and before you go into it, turn to your right to see a metal trash can on the right side of the street. Touchdown is on top of that trash can.

 you are in an intersection turn so you are following the flow of traffic and go to the next intersection and take a left there is scaffolding on the  left side of this street, follow it down past the first intersection almost to the next intersection stop just before the three green posts on your right, if you have passed the posts you've gone too far on the middle green post touchdown is sitting on top Position yourself so the chain link is to your right.
Travel to the end of the block and stop before you are in the crosswalk.
Look to your right and you will see a fire hydrant between two red poles.
The touchdown is the tip of the silver top section of the fire hydrant. 

 Orient yourself with traffic, and a man on a bike in the middle of the road. Take the first right in front of you, you should see men unloading a truck. Follow the road to the next intersection, and take a right. Follow it two steps, and take the next right. Go to the end of the intersection, and take another right. Take 3 steps down and you should see a mattress store. Touchdown is on the O in the sign above the entrance. Follow traffic to the light and go right. Go right again at the next one. Then, right once more at the next one.  Go almost to the end of the block, and stop just short of the crosswalk.  Face right.  If you're looking dead on at an ad, with a blue mailbox to the right of it, you're good. Touchdown's center atop the mailbox. Align yourself so that the green letter signs are on your right. Head up the small street after a step and keep the green sign storefront on your right.  Take a left, then shortly after, another left. There will be a row of blue bikes that you pass. Head up until you're at the white suv behind a red sedan parked on your left. You should see a traffic cone sticking out at the back of the sedan. Touchdown is sitting on the cone. Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Go forward to the intersection, and turn right. Move ahead until you reach another intersection, and go right. Soon there is scaffolding on your right with a bus stop sign in front. Touchdown is on top of the sign, on the round blue part with a bus. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and the row of bikes on your left.  Turn right at the intersection and you should see underground entrances on both sides of the street in green.  Moving down this street, you will see wooden barriers with orange netting on the right.
Go all the way down to the next intersection.  Across the street to the right you should see green yellow and blue blocks sticking out from the walls.  Turn right here.
Go forward so you're past the red awning that is jutting out towards the street.
When you're on the crosswalk at the next intersection, you should be able to see a green trashcan to your right that is open exposing the grey container inside.  Touchdown is on the top of the trashcan. Turn to where you're going with traffic and head straight to the first intersection and turn left.

Go straight and turn left again at the next intersection. You should now see white vans on the left parked.

Keep going down this road til you reach the halfway point. You'll know you're almost there when you pass a white truck getting unloaded on your right. Keep going a little more until you see scaffolding on your right and then stop. Right under the scaffolding is a red bike. The touchdown is on the middle of the handlebars on the red bike. Turn so you'll be walking in the same direction as the traffic goes on this one-way street.  Move forward until you reach an intersection, and turn right.  Now go straight through one intersection, and keep going until you reach the second intersection.  Stop when you're standing in the middle of this intersection.  Two of the corners on this intersection have light posts that have white banners/flags hanging on them (just above street level).  Only one of these flags has orange flowers on it.  The bear is in the center of the flag with the orange flowers on it.  Follow traffic to the light and go right. Go right again at the next light.  Stop when you're even with the two brown doors with bronze kick plates on the building on the left with white square columns.  To the left of the door is a silver camera. Touchdown is atop it. Orient yourself so that the sign with neon green writing is on your right, go straight to the first intersection and take a right. Now go straight again until you come to an intersection and take a right.  Go to the next intersection and take another right.  On the left ahead there is a parked package delivery truck,  stop when you pass it.  There's a set of steps going up to a black door.  Touchdown is hiding at the bottom middle of that black door. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the orange traffic cones on your left, Continue forward until you exit the tunnel and come to an intersection, Take a right,You should see a mirrored high rise building to the left in front of you, Go forward and look for some construction barrels on the right, stop before you reach the first construction Barrel, Turn to your right and you should see some orange barriers and two yellow poles sticking out of the ground, click the base of the leftmost yellow pole to find touchdown.
 First make sure you turn yourself around so that you are heading in the same direction as traffic. The ocean should be on your left.The road you are on is an elevated road.  Start down the road in the direction of traffic. You will go past a baseball field on your right. Next you will see a long gray and white 5 story building on your right. When you come to the end of the building their will be a street light on the elevated road you are on. It also has a 2 yellow signs, one diamond shape and one square. There will also be a green rectangle sign below the two yellow signs. Touchdown is sitting on the top of concrete wall in front of that street light.  Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Move ahead to the intersection, and turn right. Go to the next intersection and turn right again. Just after turning, to your left is a multi-colored umbrella. Touchdown is on top. Follow traffic to the intersection and go right, into the dark one-way street with scaffolding on both sides.

Walk until you can see the green building to your right, and turn right slightly, so you can look down and see a weird white pole in a rusted metal base. The touchdown is sitting on the sidewalk directly at that base (which is slightly to the right of the black iron-wrought fencing around the tree to the left of it.) Position yourself so that the green lane of road is to your left. Go straight ahead, keeping right of the V. Go right at the next intersection. A small park will be on your left. At the next intersection, take a sharp right. The store to your right will have potted trees on each side of the entryway. At the 3 way intersection next, go right onto the one way side street. The corner store, now to your left, is red with yellow trim. Just before reaching the green construction overhang ahead on your right, stop at the tree and look to your right. There is a wooden door on a brick bldg. Touchdown is on the very top of the lamp to the left of the door.  Turn in the direction with the bridge with construction under it is on the right. Turn left at the traffic light. Basketball court is on the right. Turn left at traffic light.  Orange and white cones will be on both sides of the street. On the right is a building with blue. After the cones are orange and white barricades to the left. On the right after the building is a parking lot. Stop when you are in the middle of the lot.At the very end of the lot you will see a yellow and black sign on a pole with people on it. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of sign.  Follow the traffic direction heading to the intersection that most close to you. Then turn right. You know you are facing the right direction if you see a postal mail box on the right side of the road. Go straight till you reach the next intersection with traffic light. On your right side there will be 4 cars parking on the street and the first one is red/black, second one is white SUV. Turn right at this intersection. You will see school sign marked on road and some orange cones on right side of the street. Heading to the traffic light, on the right side you will see an orange/white construction equipment. There are three black letters on the red part on the back of the equipment, the touchdown is on the middle letter of the three letters.  Turn an walk against traffic, with the decorated trees on your right and the flags and banners on your left.

Go straight through the next two intersections and take a left at the third.

You should see stairs leading down into the subway surrounded by green metal railing on both sides of the street and scaffolding ahead to your left. Walk past it, and just past the first door with an arch above it on your left, so that if you face left, you're looking at a building with reddish awnings and a white-yellow hanging patio.

If you rotate just slightly to the right so you're facing the next recessed door under an arch, without moving, you will see two water pipes extending from the wall. 

Touchdown is impaled on the left one.
 Orient yourself so that the parking meter is to your left and the park filled with trees are in front of you, make a right at the first intersection, with the scaffolding on your right. Follow the traffic and make a right at the light. Stop when you get to the second intersection, with the storefront with an eye on it. Touchdown is on the ground in front of the entrance. Please turn around so that you are facing a large, four-way intersection, and walk a very short distance into the middle of that intersection.  You can now turn to your right to face down a street with a red and white sign on its left and some orange construction barriers on its right.  Walk down this street. 

It is a long straight walk to the next intersection, but please ensure that there is a shop with a royal-blue awning on your right, as you enter the street.  If so, just keep walking straight for a while.  

Eventually, you will come to an intersection.  Stop there and turn to your right.  There are several turns you can make here, but try to walk down the wide road that has small green boxes on the sidewalks on both sides.  A building with two large columns should be on your left as you enter this road. 

Walk forward, and stop in the intersection.  You should see scaffolding with a green awning ahead and on the left.  Sidestep to the right of this scaffolding (so that it stays on your left as you move forward) and walk a short distance up the road.  

Just ahead of you, on the right, you should see a red awning over some outdoor cafe tables.  Just past that awning is a parked jeep next to a gray post with a small blue sign at its top.  Touchdown the Bear is sitting on top of this post. From your starting position, turn around so that the yellow-and-black striped signposts are on your right, and the yellow taxi is directly ahead of you.  Take one step forward and then take one more step diagonally to your right.  From here, the arrows will provide you with several options.  Before moving further, spin around so that you see a green mailbox with white graffiti on your right, and then walk forward, towards a bus parked on the left side of the street.  Keep walking forward, it will be a long walk, so keep going past the buses on the left.  When you pass a pedestrian crosswalk, just keep walking straight forward until you pass two more crosswalks. You should now reach an intersection with a large flatbed truck in front of you.  Turn to your right (so that the flatbed truck is on your left) and walk down this next street.  There should be a white FedEx van and a bright yellow sign visible in the distance.  Walk towards this FedEx van, and as soon as you are alongside it, you will soon be able to see two stacks of boxes on the street behind the van.  While facing those boxes, you will find Touchdown the Bear on top of the green canopy above the door of the building. Turn into traffic, with the building comprised mostly of glass windows to your left, and go to the intersection, entering it, but not going all the way through.

Directly in front of you and to your right is a traffic pole with two square signs, one of which has a bent arrow in a red circle with a red slash through it.  

Touchdown is dead center in that circle. Go in the direction that places the large glass building to your right and ahead of you. Go all the way through the tunnel under the glass building and follow the road to the right. Before the stop sign there is a yellow speed bump, stop just at this speed bump, there is also a maroon car parked to the left on the speed bump. Touchdown is in the center of the rear tire on this maroon car. Face the street going underneath the bridge and continue underneath it. On the other side of the bridge, turn left so you are moving against traffic on the one way street. Turn right at the next intersection. At the end of the block, turn right so you are going the wrong way down another one way street. There is a beauty outlet on your left as you make this turn. Next to the beauty outlet is an empty storefront and next to that is a pink bubble tea shop. Touchdown is on top of the blue hair of the Simpsons statue in front of the bubble tea shop.  Move with the flow of traffic until you pass between the two red octagon signs, and turn left at the intersection/dead end. Now move with the bridge/higher road parallel to you on the left. Move straight through an opportunity to veer left, then continue just as the road starts to curve left. Stop when there are 3 red signs in front of you (2 to the left in the little median, and 1 to your right). Touchdown is to your left, on top of the yellow and black striped vertical sign. Turn so you're facing away from the intersection right near you, and the white picket fence is on your right.  Go forward until you reach an intersection, and turn left.  
You'll now have construction scaffolding on your left, and a building with red fire escapes on your right.  Go one short block to the next intersection and turn left again.
Now you'll have blue rental bikes on your right.  Go past the long bike rack.  After that you'll come to a fancy building with a circular driveway.  Stop when you're just past the circular driveway, and the straight walkway beyond it is right next to you.  Turn to face this straight walkway that leads to the building, and note that there is wrought ironwork that connects the posts on either side of the walkway.  The bear is in the circular bit at the top and center of this wrought iron decoration. Turn in the direction of traffic on the one-way road. Go to the intersection and turn left. You'll be going in the direction of traffic again. There will be yellow signs with black figures on them on either side of the road.

Walk down to the next intersection and turn left again. As you turn down this street, there will be a green industrial looking building with individual air conditioning units on the left. As you walk down the street, notice the entrance to the green building. There will be a double set of doors on the left, then a set of three doors on the right. Touchdown is on the door handles of the doors on the left.

 Turn so you are going with the flow pf traffic. There should be a building to your right with a dirty red awning. Go straight down this road until you come to the first traffic light and make a right turn. Go down this road and when you come to the first traffic light make another right turn. You will see orange and white road barriers on your right. Again go straight down this road and turn right when you come to the first traffic light. Follow this road and stop right before you get to the next intersection. To your left you should see a pole that has two black signs with white arrows. Next to this pole is a silver fire hydrant. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant.  GO WITH traffic pass the light (under the arch) and left with curve (with white bollards with double-grey stripes on your right) and GO LEFT at the light. GO LEFT again immediately, with the white round concrete bollards to your left, heading back towards the arch, but outside and to the right of it.  STOP when the arch is directly left of you. ROTATE RIGHT.  There's a small white square sign above the door in the brick wall of the building behind the tall chainlink fence.

FIND Touchdown adhered to white square sign above the door. Turn so you are facing in the direction that the black building with large windows is on the right corner furthest away from you. Within that intersection, you will want to turn left.  After entering the street there will be a green boarded building on the right side of the street and up little ways the left side buildings will have a couple of revolving doors. At the next intersection, turn left. There will be subway stations stairs on the left side. Continue down a long street, you will pass by a fence and boarded up area on the right side. Go straight through the intersection you come to  On the right side is a glass building with a revolving door. On the left side near the crosswalk is a large metal pole that has a green box hanging on the side away from the street. The touchdown is on top of the green box.  Turn so the gray building is on your right. Go with traffic down the street. At the light take a left followed by another left. Go straight down this road with traffic. You will see glimpses of water on the right. At the next light take a left pass the location where you started. Stop when you see the white bus parked on the right side of the road. To the right of the bus is three red squares on the side of a building. Touchdown is in the middle of the square in the middle.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Turn right at the next intersection.
You should see scaffolding ahead on the right one you make that turn.
Go past the intersection with the orange awning.
At the next intersection move right.

Directly in front of you is a fence that has blue, yellow, black and red sections.  Directly in your face is a light with a hand on it.

Touchdown is on the hand. Orient yourself in which there is a building with a red sign on your left and you facing the nearest intersection. Go to the intersection and make a right turn. Once you made a right turn, continue forward passing the cones and scaffolding on your left. After you pass these, continue forward passing a few blue awnings on your left and a window with windows open on your right. Keep on going after passing these and pass a building with red, white, and blue flag on your left. Continue further after passing the flag and pass a scaffolding on your left and a black awning on your right further down. Once you pass the awning, you should be near the intersection. At the intersection, make a right turn. Once you pass the crosswalk, you should be align with the two mailbox on your left. To your right is a trash bin near the cross walk that you pass. The touch down is sitting on top of it. Follow traffic to the light and go left, and go left again at the next one, and one final left at the light after that.   You should find yourself on a street with metal scaffolding on the left and a long row of blue rental bikes, and a green wall on your right, with a white banner with a leaf ahead.

Go through the light and stop on the other side, before you pass the green and blue mailbox on your right.  

Touchdown is center and atop the olive colored mailbox to your right. Orient yourself with traffic on the one-way street. Continue to the first intersection and take a right. Proceed down that one-way street and, at the next intersection, take a right. Pass the green crane on your right. Take a right at the next intersection. Proceed until you're in front of the fabric store on your left. Touchdown is on the dog next to the fire hydrant.  Follow the flow of traffic and go straight. Turn left at the first intersection. Go straight and then turn left at the next intersection. There will be parking to both sides of you. Continue forward and turn left at the first intersection. Stop right before the next intersection. The touchdown is on the light on top of the police car parked on the left. Turn and follow the flow of traffic.  Pass the first right, then take the second.  Followed by the next right.  Pass the vendor on the left.  Then there is a blue door, up a few stairs.  The bear is on the red fire hose connect outside of the 1st blue door.   Orient yourself so the white stone building is on your right. Go straight to the first intersection and make a left. Youll travel into oncoming traffic to the next intersection. and make a left here. Go straight. at the next intersection there will be two yellow stop lights. the  touchdown will be in the middle of the right stop light Head down the street with the red cooler next to the blue storage container,proceed down the one  way street with the flow of traffic 2 blocks and turn right on the one way street.After you turn right there is a banner outside a building on your left with MK on it. After going about 3/4 of the way down the street there is a trailer on the left side,touchdown is next to the rear of the tire.  Face away from the intersection (don't go into the intersection) so that the bridge next to you is on your left side and there is a red brick building on the right. Go straight. Don't turn at the small road almost like an alley that you come across to the right. Keep going the same way down the road as before with the bridge to your left side. 

When you get to the intersection that has a stop light make a left. This will take you under the bridge. You are going down a small one way street now. A short distance down you will come to a 3 way intersection. Directly in front of you is a parked black box truck. Turn left. Now you are again facing the same way as traffic and the bridge is to your left again. There is a parking lot off the street to your right. Go straight down this road. You will come to an intersection and need to go straight through it then come to a stop immediately.. On the left side under the bridge the fencing is dark grey or green and on the right side is an older brick building with windows that have offset different colored panes in them. There is a very dirty and wet area on the corner on the right with a trashcan. Touchdown is on top of that trashcan.  Turn against the flow of traffic.  Take your first left, then the next left.  Pass the covered walkway on the left.  Head toward the elevated platform on the right (Silver poles).  Then stop just before it.  Look right and back.  There are 4 manhole covers on the sidewalk and 1 silver post.  The bear is on top of the post.   Align yourself with the flow of traffic, with the red moped on your right. Head straight through two intersections, and make a left at the third. Head down this street until you see two olive post boxes on your left, in front of a greenish storefront, with red Christmas tree shelves in the window. Touchdown is on top of the right olive box move into the intersection and turn left. As soon as you turn there will be a building with a grey awning that has an orange stripe on your left and a green awning on the building to your right. Go one block and turn left again. Go straight down this entire long block. When you reach the next intersection go straight through it then stop immediately. On the right side you will see planters with topiary plants that are round shaped like globes. Touchdown is on top of the first plant. Follow traffic until you can turn left, and do so. The building with the purple awning should be on your right and Jersey walls to your left.  When you reach the light, go left and stop, with the orange metal fencing exactly on your left and the orange striped white Jersey walls on your right.

If you turn and face left, you'll see a gate, and to the left of it, grey metal trash cans, one with a blue lid, upon which, top and center, Touchdown sits. Follow the flow of traffic and go forward. There should be trees to both sides of you. After the trees there will be an intersection; turn right. Go straight through the first intersection and stop before the second intersection. There will be a black and white fire hydrant to your left. The touchdown is at the base of the fire hydrant.  Making sure the park is to your left, and a red and blue star decoration is on a building ahead to your right, position yourself to go forward. Go straight through the next 2 intersections. Stopping at the next intersection, a red brick building with a green awning should be on your right corner. Go right here. Pass the green awning ahead on your left, and a big brown building after that on your right. A large red brick building will be next up on your right. Just past the first steps to the building, you will see a green awning on your left. Go just past it and then turn to face the buildings on your right. You should be in front of a section of white walls, with red brick above it. There is a door in the middle of the white part, with an air conditioning unit in the window above it. Touchdown is sitting on the very top of that air conditioner, in the middle.  Turn and follow traffic down the street. You will pass a green overhang on a building on your right. You will pass 3 mailboxes on your left. Turn right at the intersection. There will be a brown building with  red doors on your right. Turn right again at the next intersection. You will pass a place with tables on the sidewalk on the right.  Construction on the left. At the next intersection there is some orange and white barriers. with a garbage can sitting behind them. Touchdown is sitting on top of garbage can.  From the starting position, turn so you are facing the same direction as traffic -- the green scaffolding and awnings will be on your left. Move down the street until you get to a traffic light. At the traffic light, turn right. Move a short way down the street until you hit another traffic light. Turn right again -- there will be a shop with green awnings to your left now as you move down the street. Move past the shop until you get to a playground on your right. On your left will be a garage door with graffiti on it. In front of that door is a large tree. Touchdown is at the the base of the tree. Follow traffic, going through the first intersection you come to and taking a right at the next. Continue down this long block, going past a pedestrian crosswalk with stop lights and a building with four flags on your right, until just before you reach the Jersey barriers on your left.  Stand such that you're looking diagonally slightly left and ahead, at the first of them.  In the space between the concrete base of the wooden barrier and the first Jersey barrier, directly behind the white line separating the grey pavement from the red brick pavement, sitting on the road in the gap, is the touchdown. Face the intersection you are right in front of, enter it, and go straight through in the same direction as traffic. Go left at the next one, crossing both lanes of traffic. Stop just a little ways before reaching the next intersection, in front of the square white sign with black letters on the right side of the road. Touchdown is sitting on the very top of this sign, in the center.  Turn so the building with the bright yellow, blue, and green blocks on the facade is to your left.  Go to the intersection that's just in front of you, and turn right.  
You're now on a block with blue rental bikes along the right side.  Go all the way to the other end of this long block.  You're going to go straight through the intersection, and stop as soon as you're done getting through the intersection (you'll still be standing on the crosswalk).  Right next to you on your left is a square pole that is bright red.  The bear is on top of this pole.  Go in the direction of the four way intersection right next to you. Make a left at this intersection, you will now be on a one way road going with the flow of traffic. Go to the next intersection and make a left. You will pass a large red construction machine to your right. Pass a building with yellow to your right and you will now be at the door with the bright green awning to your right. Stop here for a moment and observe that there are three trees ahead to your right. Now continue straight and stop after the second tree. Turn to your right and you will have a brick building with planter boxes and a glass entryway. You should be in front of the window that is to the right of the entryway. On this wall is a twin pipe with yellow caps. Touchdown is on the yellow cap on your left.  Face in the direction traffic is moving, with the park on your left.  Keep going until the park on the left ends, then turn left.  This will be the fourth intersection you reach and there will be construction in the road.  After the turn the construction continues and the park will again be on your left.  Stop just before the second intersection: this will be where both the construction and park on the left end.  Look at the building on your right just before the intersection.  On the corner will be two plaques, the lower one with five sides and the upper one a circle.  Touchdown is on the circle. Orient yourself so you following the flow of traffic with the intersection just in front of you. Move forward to the intersection and take a left. There should be a tan building with a black awning on your right. Continue forward to the next intersection and take a left. You should see a row of black and white striped awnings hanging from the building on the left in front of you. Continue forward to the next intersection and take another left. There should be a bank immediately to your right and a  store with a green awning just in front of that. Continue forward until you are just before the middle of the next intersection. To your right ahead of you will be scaffolding. Turn slightly right and you will see a white sign with green lettering hanging from the scaffolding. Click the bottom right corner of this sign to find touchdown.
 Turn so the construction scaffolding is on your right and you're walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street.  Go forward until you reach an intersection, and turn right.  
Now you'll have a store with blue awnings on your left and a clock on a post over the sidewalk on your right.  Go forward to an intersection, and turn right again.  You'll have a small empty lot on your right, and a food cart with a blue and yellow umbrella. Ahead of you are many flags over the street.  Stop before you've reached the first flags.  On the left side of the street, before the flags start, is a stretch of wall that is plain black.  There are two red buttons on this black wall.  Stop when you're even with the two red buttons.  The bear is in the center of this button panel. Orient yourself so you are moving in the same direction as traffic.  Turn right at the end of the block.  You should be following traffic down another one way street.  Turn right at the traffic light.  Go down one block and again, turn right at the traffic light.  Stop just as you reach the end of the block.  There should be a store with a bright yellow sign, and a cash machine next to the doorway.  Touchdown bear is on top of the grey cash machine. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  You should see scaffolding on your right.  Go straight through the next intersection.  At the next intersection there will be a small bit of scaffolding visible.  Turn left and complete a u-turn on the other side of the street.
Once you do you will now see red scaffolding on the left.
Go straight through the next intersection and you will see orange and white stripped awnings on the right.  Head forward into the next intersection and stop.  You will see a food cart ahead on the right and a trashcan closer to you.  Touchdown is hiding at the base of the trash can.
 Turn so the construction scaffolding is on your right and the gray port-a-potty is on the left. Move forward down the street in the direction of traffic. At the corner, make a right turn. Almost immediately after, you'll see an option to veer to the left. You want to avoid that and go straight instead. Go all the way to the next intersection and turn right. You'll be headed past a fire hydrant on the left. You'll see two diamond shaped yellow signs warning about the stop sign ahead. Right after that, there will be a signpost with a sign that is half red and half white. At the base of the post is a pile of trash. Touchdown is on the shortest part of the pile of trash. Go in the same direction of traffic and turn left at the intersection. Go straight through the next 2 intersections. On both sides of the street, you will see tall gold and black buildings. Stop just before entering the next intersection and look to your left. Notice 3 garbage cans, gray, blue and green.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the green garbage can. To verify you're in the correct position there should be a white block building to your right which has a black double door with square glass windows. To your left are several buildings that have a green scaffolding going across the sidewalk. Continue straight on the street.
When you come to the intersection you will want to veer right. To verify you're going the correct direction you should do now passing a white building that is made of brick and you will see a large sign with a blue skeleton on it. This is to the right on a silver shelter.
You will continue straight through the next two intersections.
When you come to the third intersection stop do not cross.
You will see a trashcan on your right hand side almost to the corner. Touchdown will be sitting directly on top of that trashcan. Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that the long line of parked cars is to your right and the yellow division in the road is to your left.

2. Follow this road, keeping right when the road forks. At the intersection after the orange and white construction barrier and the scaffolding on the left ends, take a right.

3. On your left, there should be a large brick building with a fenced-in area with a lot of foliage. Follow the traffic cones on your right. When your reach the end of them, turn around and go back the way you came.

4. At the intersection from before, take a left so that you're almost where you started. The scaffolding and barrier should now be on your right.

5. This is going to sound weird, but stay with me here. When you reach that fork in the road from before, take the path that you haven't taken yet. You should now be on the opposite side of the street.

6. Move into the intersection, and pass through it. You should be very near where you started. On the right, you should see a bus stop, a bike tied to a sign, and a black vehicle parked on the side of the road.

7. Stop when you're even with the back of the vehicle. Touchdown is sitting on the seat of the aforementioned bike.

Good luck, and I apologize for the confusing directions! :) Start moving in the direction of traffic. You will pass a tall orange ladder on your right. Turn left at the light. Go straight through the next intersection you see.  You should see a teal colored storefront on your right.  Go straight through the next intersection as well.  You should now see a green bicycle lane toward the left side of the street, and a bunch of big planters along the right side of the street. Go to the crosswalk before you enter the next intersection and stop. On your right, there is a single giant planter on the corner next to the red edge of the sidewalk. Touchdown is sitting on top of that planter. Turn so that the playground is on your right and a green construction overhang is to your left. Go down this narrow street, eventually following it around a corner to the right. Go straight, passing basketball courts on your right. Pass by black iron fencing with yellow posts on your left, stopping just before the road turns around another corner ahead. Looking to your right, you will find Touchdown on top of the dark colored fire hydrant between yellow posts.  From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  You should see a yellow guardrail directly in front of you.  

Move forward so that the guardrail and concrete divider are on your right as you pass.  Keep moving forward on this road, and it will gradually curve to your right. 

As you approach an off-ramp, try to bear very slightly to your left to stay on the main road for a few more steps.   

Before you reach the solid white line that marks the off-ramp, stop and look to your right.  You will see some narrow white letters on a red brick wall.  In the middle of those letters is an apostrophe (or a small white slash above the gap between two letters).  Touchdown is sitting above these letters so that his "behind" is touching but not covering that apostrophe. Orient yourself, with the bridge on your left, go forward and make a left at the first intersection. 
Go under the bridge and make a left at the first intersection. The bridge should still be on your left. 
Pass the intersection that only goes right and keep going after you pass the second intersection (which had a brown building with an American flag on the right). 
Stop before you completely pass that brown building and look to your left, under the bridge. There is a fence with a locked gate, to the right of the gate, there will be an orange and white cone. Touchdown is on top of that cone. Turn and go in the direction with the traffic. Turn left at intersection. After you turn look to the left and find a green garbage can. Touchdown is sitting on top.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and facing the immediate intersection.  Go through it.
You should see scaffolding ahead on the right, keep going.  Go through the intersection ahead.
You'll eventually end up at a location that has a green sign with yellow lettering, a black awning, a purple awning and then a red awning.  Stop when you're just before the green sign.  There's a black door with a diamond window.  Touchdown is on this diamond window. Turn yourself so that you are going with the flow of traffic. Go straight and you should see a gray building to your left. Keep going and turn right at the first traffic light. Go to the nest traffic light and make another right turn. You should be seeing a red and yellow awning on your right. Keep going straight. You will pass by some construction on the right. Look to the left and you will see an orange porta potty slightly behind some green fencing. Touchdown is sitting on top of the porta potty.  Follow traffic to the light. Go right. At the next light, go right. There will be green awning with white text on the left. Pass it  Rotate left. Look past the blue bike rentals, at a single green door in a white brick building, right of the final green door of the shop with green awnings.  

Touchdown is at the center of the window to the right of the green door of the white brick building. Turn around and align yourself with the curve of the road, there should be a yellow sign denoting this on your right. Head in to the curve and around. Watch shortly on your left once it starts to curve in to a break in the parking, and take note of the handicap parking signs. Touchdown is on the last handicap parking sign in the row, of the two. You should see a green trash bin behind it. Begin going in the direction of the traffic. You will be making the first left, at the intersection you are currently at. Proceed one block to the next intersection and make another left turn. Proceed down this street. As soon as you get to the second intersection, stop. Look to the right, on the sidewalk. There is a green box of some sort - in between a garbage can and a tree. Touchdown the bear is sitting on top of that green box. With the store with a large red logo to your right, go with the flow of traffic to the next intersection and turn right.  At the next intersection, you'll turn right again. There will be scaffolding to your left.  Go to the next intersection and turn right. Go to the next intersection There's a fire hydrant to the right on the corner of the business with red lettering.  Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, and head down to the first intersection, to make a right. At the start of the scaffolding to your left, you should see some bikes, and a wooden door entrance behind it. Touchdown is sitting on the entrance of the right door at the bottom. Go with the flow of traffic. You should see a blue bike in front of you to your left, a blue and red brick building to your right. Follow this road up until you hit the intersection then take a left. You were see a store on the right that has a blue background with big white lettering and on the left there appears to be apartment buildings. Go up until you hit the next intersection and take a left. You should see a food stand on your life, subway stairs leading down on both right and left, with apartment buildings on both left and right. Go until you are just in front of the red overhang above the dor with white lettering. up ahead you should see a white sign with red on it to your left. The touchdown is the middle.  Orient yourself so theres a green fence like wall to your left and an old grey building on the right. Trevel this way and make a left at the first intersection. not far down this street there will be a bunch a trash in white trash bags on the right side of the road, and a wheel chair accessable ramp as well. the touchdown is located on the first window after the ramp. (towards the bottom) turn to face traffic with the building with the scaffolding to your right, continue to the 1st intersection. At the intersection take a left, the brick building to your right has red flags hanging on it. Continue to the next intersection and take a left, there is a row of blue bikes on your left, you will be following traffic down a one way road. You will pass a beige brick building with blue doors on your right. Continue straight. On the building with the blue doors are iron gates, ;are like garage doors, just past them is another blue door, the bear is in the center of the door Orient yourself so that you are going against the flow of traffic.  You will turn right at the first chance you get (right after the store with the aqua colored banner on your left).  You will be on a narrow alley way.  After the green and black graffiti on your right.  There will be a metal pole next to the parked black SUV.  Touchdown is sitting at the base of the pole. follow the direction of traffic till you get to the next intersection. There will be a blue sign with white letter and arrow on your left. Then turn left at this intersection, You will see construction on your right and parking lot on your left. Go forward. Soon you will see some orange/white cones on your left, in the middle of the orange cone area there are two spots that is blocked by orange/white bars on the cone. Then on the street there is a black fire hydrant with white top. The touch down is on the white part of the fire hydrant.  Move with the flow of traffic and step into the close intersection. Turn left and move against traffic, passing a row of skinny trees in the median to your right. At the next intersection, take a left again. Now you are moving with traffic on the one-way street.  Move forward and turn left at the next intersection. Now go past three red awnings to your right and stop before entering the intersection. In the median before the intersection is a black sign with a white arrow. Touchdown is on that sign. Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic, and turn left at the first intersection.  Turn left at the next intersection.  And again at the next.  Go through this intersection and stop.  There is a van with an American Flag painted on the back.  Click the stars.  Happy 4th of July! position yourself so you are following the traffic and facing the intersection that is close to you. Walk towards the intersection and turn right. Once you turned right, the store with orange letter sign should be on your left and the store with black letters sign should be on your right. Above it will be a red board sign with white letters and a white star. Now go straight. Pass the 4 way intersection. Continue, you should see a store with one big red letter and few smaller red letters logo on your left. Then you should see a red truck featuring a drink company on it on the left .  Go pass the truck. You will see a store with red banner and white logo/letters above the door. In front of the store there is a traffic cone, a trash can, and a planter. The touchdown is on that white logo above the main entrance of the store.  Position yourself so the orange traffic cones and brick wall are on your right hand side.
Go forward and make a left at the first intersection.
Travel all the way down this street until you hit the next intersection and make a left.
You will pass an auto garage on the way.
Immediately after making the left, stop and look to your right. 
You will see a large brick building with a long metal grate going upwards.
It looks like a ladder.
The touchdown is the middle of the last rung, at the very top of this ladder.
 Face away from the intersection you are next to. On your right is a red building with brick arches over windows that are covered in colorful paper. Go straight. You'll pass a green painted storefront on the left side. You will pass a green awning then a blue one on the left side again. Just past that is a light reddish brown building that has grey painted around the windows and doors. Touchdown is in the middle of that doorway on the ground.  Go against traffic and take a right at the light. Go straight until the 2nd light and go right again. Stop just after you pass the red awning with white text on your right and turn to face the shop after it.  There's a single rung of fire escape with a light behind it above the A/C unit above the door of the shop. Touchdown is atop that bottom rung. Follow the flow of traffic and turn right at the first intersection. Continue going forward and then turn right at the next intersection. You should see a bike parked to your right. The touchdown is in the center of the front wheel of the bike. First orient yourself to go in the direction with traffic. Continue on through the intersection. Keep going past the building with the yellow flag type things on the right. Continue walking to the intersection. At the intersection, turn left.  There will be a couple of red and yellow umbrella stands on your right. Walk down the street, past the parking lot on the right. You'll see some trees on the left and right. Touchdown will be at the bottom of the large tree on your right. From your starting point, please turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  The row of blue bicycles should be on your right.  Walk forward until you come to an intersection, passing another row of bicycles along the way.  

Turn left at this intersection, and before you enter this street, you should see an orange ladder leaning against a green canopy on your right.  If so, start walking down this road.  

Walk straight through the first intersection you come to, so that you pass between two orange and white chimneys on the other side, and you walk down a road with green construction walls on the right, with blue posters above them.  Keep going until you reach another intersection.  

Turn left at this intersection, and walk down a one-way street, in the same direction as traffic.  On your right should be a shop with black lettering and a red check-mark logo.  On your left should be some well-dressed mannequins in store windows.  

Walk forward a bit further, and you will see some open garage doors and short yellow poles on your left.  Walk just past these doors, but stop when you are standing right next to three blue canopies on a wall on the right.  

Look to your left and you should also be standing right next to a small green bush/tree in a white planter, and you should be able to see a large war memorial statue.  If you can see these things, you are in the right place, but please look back to your right.  Touchdown is sitting on the highest point of the blue canopy in the middle.
 
Go with the flow of traffic. You should pass by the blue bikes. Keep going through that intersection. There should be scaffolding on the left. As you make it to this intesection, then you  need to take a left. On your right you will see a white van with text on it. Your touchdown will be the handle.  Align yourself so that the store with a green logo is on your right.  Go to the first stoplight and turn right.  At the next intersection, you will go straight. Go until you get to the next intersection. Once you enter into the intersection, look to your right.  There's a small pink sign sitting outside the business on the corner, Touchdown is in the center of this sign.  Turn until the brick wall is on your right. Go straight down that road past the first intersection and keep going straight. Keep going straight past the second intersection toward the construction. Keep going until you come to the four way and go the middle where the construction on your right. The bear is the trash bag next to the trash can. Turn so you are facing the busses in the fenced in area. There are busses parked off to the right as well. Go right just a bit, then move forward down this road, passing the busses parked on the right.

Go through the first 3-way but turn left at the next. When you turn there will be a fenced in area on your left with a bunch of vans parked in it. 

Go just past the fence opening of the lot the vans are parked in and turn around to your left to see the guard shack. There is a cone in front of the guard shack and Touchdown is on top of the cone.

 Turn so that the red awnings are to your right. Walk forward to the next intersection and stop when you reach the crosswalk. Face left. Above the bicycles on the post is a white and red sign.

Touchdown is in the middle of the small white and red sign. From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  You should see a yellow, diamond-shaped sign with a black stick figure on a lamppost on the sidewalk to your right.  


Walk forward a short distance, and stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to.  Turn to your right so that you see some scaffolding with a green canopy in front of a red brick wall on your right.  You should also see a building with dark blue borders and white lettering on your left.  Walk down the narrow street between these two buildings.  If you pass a large open garage door on your right, you are on the right track, and can just keep going straight. 

Stop when you get to the middle of an intersection.   Turn to your right, and you should see white and yellow construction barriers on the left side of the street, and a red brick wall, with more scaffolding, on the right.  Walk down the road between these things.  Walk straight, past a long row of white and yellow barriers and into the intersection.  

When you are in the middle of the intersection, turn to your right so that you see a red brick wall, with a large brown and yellow sign.  Walk down the road, and you should see a brown awning over a doorway, with the same brown-and-yellow logo.  Walk just a little bit further, and see a partially-open garage door with orange cones on both sides.  Just down the street, past the cones, you will see a small red sign on a tall gray lamppost.  Touchdown the Bear is sitting on top of that red sign.  Turn so the red brick building is on your right and the building with the big silver cylinder on one corner is on your left.  Go forward until you reach an intersection and turn right.  Now you'll be on a block with cars parked perpendicular to the sidewalk on both sides.  Go forward until you're almost at the intersection at the end of this block.  Stop before the intersection, when you're even with the red newspaper dispenser box on the left side (it's up against a tree trunk).  The bear is on top of this red box. Orient yourself with traffic and proceed. Turn right at the end of the street. Stay left at the fork and then turn left at the stop signs. Turn a hard left at the first light. Pass the green space on the right. Stop just before the door of a building with a cross flag on the left. Touchdown is on the center of the cross of the flag. With your back to the intersection and iron fences to your right, go with traffic. Go left at the next intersection. On top of short brick walls on your right, there are shrubs. Go straight through the next intersection.  You will pass multiple green building awnings on your right. Ahead, don't turn right, just go straight. Stop just in front of the crosswalk at the next large 4 way intersection. In front of you on the left, there is a sign with a bike on it. Touchdown is riding the bike, on the seat.  Put the bridge to your left.  Go through this first intersection.  Take the next left and go under the bridge.  Once out, go left.  Continue forward, when you can turn left, stop.  Look right.  There is a fire hydrant, bear is on top. Turn and go in the same direction as the traffic. Turn left at intersection. On the right you will see blue and orange awnings. Go straight thru the next intersection. You will see some gray construction bars on the left. And then a green awning next to it. Then at the corner on the left you will see a red square newspaper box. Touchdown is sitting on top.  Align yourself with the flow of traffic of the larger street heading to your right. You should have a red sign with a bunch of awnings on it on your left. Head down the street.

Head down this street until you see a parking lot on your left. Opposite of it, is a building with a red potted plant. Touchdown is on the potted plant, in the middle of the plant on it. Position yourself so on the left there is a brick building with a long green awning. There is also an American flag on a tall pole there, too. Take this street to the first intersection and turn right. 

You'll go around a gentle curve and you'll see trees with lots of leaves on the ground on your right. There will be an overpass just up ahead. There are a couple green signs on the overpass, as well as a small yellow one between them. Touchdown is on that yellow sign.  Turn so the grey brick building with graffiti is on your left.  Follow the cars to the intersection ahead and turn right.  Proceed down this road and turn right at your first opportunity.  Follow this road a short distance and turn right again at the intersection.  There will be a short black building on your left now.  Follow this road again until you reach the next intersection and stop just on the other side.  Look to your right and there is a short grey pole with the pedestrian walk signals on it.  Touchdown is sitting on the top of this pole. Orient yourself with the flow of traffic on this one lane steret. there will be a yellow school bus on your left side. Go straight for a long ways.. At the second intersection, turn left.

there will now be a building with lots of trees on your left and a tall chainlink fence on your right. Not far down this street you will see a bus stop on the right. There is a bench inside of it. the touchdown is sitting in the middle of the bench
 Orient yourself so that there is a basketball court to your right. You will be going with the flow of traffic on the one way street. At the first traffic light make a left turn. At the next light make another left turn. You will pass by some orange construction mesh fencing. Keep going down this street. Be looking to your left for a white brick building with brown trim. The house will have flower boxes with red flowers. There are two doors to this building. Turn and face the second door and Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the top step.  Turn so the median strip with all the plants and the black chain fence is on your left.  Go straight through the three-way intersection just ahead of you.  Also go through the second intersection you come to.  You'll now be under a large bridge.  At the third intersection, turn left.  You'll have a bridge just to your right over you.  This is your target block.  Go forward, and you'll see a stretch where there is white cloth hung above the chain link fence on your right.  After you pass that, look for a gap in the low concrete wall to your right.  Stop just before you're even with this gap.  The bear is on the corner of the concrete wall next to you, just before the gap. Follow traffic and go left at the SECOND light.  Go left again at the next light.

Stop before reaching the scaffolding on the right, or the entrance to the building on the left.

Face left.  You should be staring directly at a grey planter with what appears to be a juniper.  Touchdown is dead center on top of the shrubbery in the planter. Turn so you are facing away from the tunnel. You should see construction barrels on your left. Move forward until the road branches. There will be a lot of construction and you will want to take the left branch passing the large red containers on your right. This road will curve around slightly and you will pass more construction with heavy machinery on your left. At the next intersection go straight. There will be more construction on both your right and left. Travel half a bock and the construction will come to an end. You will see a blue awning then a bright orange awning on your left. Under the orange awning the touchdown is sitting in the very center of the top step. Orient yourself so your moving against the flow of traffic you will see a median to the right with some trees ahead of you in a red brick building on your left. Move forward against the flow traffic keeping the median to your right. Take a right at the next intersection. Turn backwards to your left and you will see four black bell-shaped posts coming out of the ground. Touchdown is sitting at the base of the bell-shaped post nearest you. Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street and the theater with lights all over the marquis is on your right.  Go forward, and you'll come to a point where you could turn right into a sort of driveway tunnel in the building.  Continue past that, and you'll reach a big intersection in Times Square.  Go straight through this double intersection.  You'll then be on a block with food carts on your left and a person selling hats on your right.  As you move forward to pass the had vendor you'll have a chance to hop to the left.  Hop to the left, and you'll find yourself now with a purse vendor to the right.  Stop here, while you're mostly lined up with the black fire hydrant on your right (it's a tad ahead of you).  The bear is on top of this fire hydrant.   Go with the flow of traffic; go straight ahead.  When you come to the intersection, turn left.  (This intersection has a bright red restaurant on the corner.) Go straight, crossing over the other half of the divided street that you were on and then proceed straight down the side street.    There will be lots of trees on either side of you.  Go to the next intersection and turn left.  There will be some bike parking stations on your right.  Go a ways down this street until you see the building with all the blue fire escapes.  Stop right after you pass all of these blue fire escapes.  Turn 90 degrees to your right.  There is a bright blue door.  Above that door on is a round light.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this light.   PASS the brick building with white 3D letters on a red sign band at your right and GO THROUGH four lights.

STOP before stepping on the crosswalk of the last. Ahead, to your right, you should see two flags on the right corner building, and on the left corner, a green building with black 3D letters and a red check mark.  ROTATE LEFT to face almost down the street to your left.

FIND Touchdown atop the square red metal post on the corner. Follow traffic to the light and go left, and go left again at the next light. Stop just after you reach the green awning on your right, before there's a long swathe of bricks also painted green.  Rotate right to face where the green wall starts. Above it is a white banner and a smaller yellow one. Touchdown is in the center of the latter. Turn and walk down the narrower street that you can follow in the direction that traffic goes. The building on your right corner should have red and yellow signs.  Walk down, keeping left at the construction area, and continuing on till you get to the intersection. Go right at the intersection. Walk past the piles of garbage on the right side of the street. Standing almost on the crosswalk, turn around and face the building on your right. It has a gold colored door and a dark awning. See the old fire hydrant in between two old posts on the sidewalk.  Touchdown is sitting on the ground with his back against the fire hydrant.  Orient yourself so that you are facing a silver van with a median on your right. Go straight and then turn left at the intersection. The touchdown is on the bike sign to your left.  Face the flow of traffic and move forward.  You'll be following a blue car.

When you get to the intersection, turn right.  You'll have scaffolding on your left at this point.

At the next intersection, turn right.  You'll see a colorful storefront on your left once you've turned.

Go down this street and pass a green delivery truck on the right.  On the left ahead you should see a blue gated area that is open.  Stop when you're at the part that has signs hanging from it.

From here you can see the blue doors (one is open) with a sign above them with red text.  Touchdown is on this sign. Going with the flow of traffic with the large building in front of you, enter into the intersection and turn right.  Go straight through the next three intersections. After the third intersection there will be a parking lot after the building on your right.  Touchdown is on top of the black and silver fire hydrant outside the parking lot. Turn so the red awning with some white lettering is on your left. Go with the flow of traffic down this road, through the first 2 intersections but turning right at the third. When you turn there are red awnings on your left and a red awning followed by a red/white/blue awning on your right. Go until you see some scaffolding on your right. About halfway down the scaffolding turn to look to your left. There is a small black arched awning on the left. Touchdown is sitting on top of the numbers on the black awning on the left. Orient yourself so you are facing the same way the traffic is moving.  Go forward to the intersection and turn left.  Go forward to the next intersection and turn left again.  Continue down this road, past the black fenced lot on the right.  Keep going straight through the intersection.  Look for the large green plywood awning supported by metal poles on your right, right before the next intersection.  Look at the awning, there are two white signs on it.  One has green arrows around a black circle, and right in the middle of that logo is touchdown. Look for the double stop signs that are facing you and go in this direction.  Turn right at the first intersection. You will go on the right side of the fork in the road.  Turn right again at the next intersection. Go to the far left street with the row of blue bikes on it. Turn right again at the next intersection. Enter the next intersection and stop slightly after the middle. To your left are orange and white road cones. Touchdown is sitting on top of the first road cone from the left. Turn so the green construction is on your left.  Travel down this road and turn left.  You will be looking at an overpass ahead now.  Travel forward, passing under the overpass and make a left turn at the first intersection after the bridge.  You'll now have some short metal posts on your left.  Travel until you are almost to the open door of the building on your left, it's a large bus entrance.  Above that door is a small yellow traffic light, just to the left of the metal girder in the middle.  Touchdown is on top of that light, Going with the flow of traffic, go to the first intersection and turn right.  Go straight through the next intersection that has blue awnings on both sides of the road.  Turn right at the next intersection, you'll have scaffolding on your right.  There will be a large red truck your left with carpet and cardboard trash near the next intersection.  Stop when you see it.  There's two gray trashcans on the top of this truck on their sides.  Touchdown is on the circle of the lid that's closest to the street. Turn so the van parked with a coffee cup design on it is on your right. Go straight until you come to the intersection. Take a left. Go until you come to another traffic light. Take a left here. Stop just up the street a bit. There is a building on your right that has gold colored accents around the doors. There is a blue yellow sign on the sidewalk in front of the entrance to this building. Touchdown is in the middle of the round blue sign here.  With the green fences to your left and the white barriers in front of the glass barriers behind you.  Go straight through this light.  You should have a green construction wall to your left and a concrete wall to your right. Go straight through the next light also.   You'll have construction on both sides of you now.  Finally as soon as the construction clears, turn left at the light.  You'll see sandwich advertisements in the windows on your right.  Go straight until you see a parking garage that you can go into. There's a sign right after the entrance.  Touchdown is on the red part of the sign. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
You will be at an intersection very quickly.  Turn left.  
This building to your left will have a mural on it and some blue bins.  After the bins will be more of the mural, keep going.
Towards the end of the fence on the left you need to stop and look at the buildings on the right.  You should see some steps leading up to a red door with windows in it.  Touchdown is on the door handle. Start walking in the same direction as traffic. Turn right at the first intersection you come to. Go to the next intersection and turn right again.Go forward a short distance. You should see a blue dumpster covered by a blue tarp on your right. There is a blue and white sign on the front of the dumpster. Touchdown is in the middle of that sign. You'll begin under a bridge, moving with the flow of traffic. You'll see barbed wire on the top of the fence to your left. At the first intersection, which is just a few steps forward, turn left. Now, the bridge you were just under is on your left. 

At the next intersection, turn left again. You're not going back under that bridge in the other direction. Orange and white cones are in a fenced in area on your right. At the next intersection, turn left again. There is no traffic light light at this one. It's just a four-way stop. After you turn, green scaffolding will be on your right. 

Go straight to the final intersection and walk straight forward into the middle of it. The corner to your right that you are approaching has a yellow newspaper stand. Touchdown is waiting for you on top of that yellow stand. Align yourself with traffic and move forward towards the intersection. Take a left at the intersection. Move forward to the next intersection. Again, take another left. Move forward until you see a storefront with a yin yang symbol on your left. Touchdown is on that symbol. Follow the flow of traffic on your side.  Walk to the intersection, turn left, turn left again.  (Essentially make a U-Turn to be on the other side of the road.  Head towards the next intersection.  There is a silver van on the right with a circle side window.  The bear is in that window. Turn until the two orange cones are in front of you to the right. Walk straight to the next intersection and turn right. There should be trees in the middle of the road to your right. Walk forward through the next intersection to the one after it and turn left. There should be a black building with blue logos on it to your right. There should be black awnings to your left. Walk straight. You should pass two orange and white dividers on your left. Walk past these dividers until you see a black post with a blue ring near the top of it. Next to that post should be another skinny gray post with a plant a the top. You should be facing the posts so they are right in front of you. Touchdown is on the ground between the two posts. This will just be a short straight hop, so please keep an eye on your surroundings.  

From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.You should see some bicycles on the right-hand sidewalk.  

Walk forward, passing a dark blue cargo box with brown tarps on your left, but stop just before you pass under a bridge.  

On your right is a building with a square arch over its doorway.  At the top section of the arch are two words in large gray letters above four words in smaller black letters.  Touchdown is sitting in the gap between the two gray words. Get turned so that the white building with a garage door on it is on your right side and you are heading the same direction as traffic. Go straight through the first intersection. At the second intersection make a left. There will be a long orange awning on your right side once you get turned. Go straight one short block. Make a left again. Once you are turned there are red pillars on the building on the left side of you. Go straight. Go straight through the next intersection and go a short distance and stop. You will still be next to the building on the left with red pillars but not to the end of it yet. On the right side of the street on the corner is a trash can with white trash bags next to it. Touchdown is on top of that trashcan.  Turn and go in the direction with the traffic. Turn right at the intersection. Orange and white cones on the left and orange and white barriades on the right. Turn right at the next intersection. Orange and white barricades on the left. Go straight at intersection. Purple awning to the left. Go straight at the 2 red and white octagon signs. Orange and white barricades on the left. At the end of this block is a red and white octagon sign and touchdown is sitting in the middle of the sign. Orient yourself so that you have green scaffolding ahead on your left, and a few trees next to you on your right. Move forward and you will pass orange and white construction barriers on your right. Then you'll come to an intersection. You need to veer left/back and then follow a strange turn and then you'll be able to exit the intersection so that you have made a u-turn. 
Now go forward to the intersection and turn left. Stop before exiting the intersection. Ahead on your left is an orange diamond sign on the green wall. Touchdown is on that sign. Find the giant American Flag on the wall.  Turn down the road so that its on your left.  Walk forward.  Just before you enter the intersection, Stop.  Look to your left and behind you.  There is a small mirror on the wall.  The bear is on that. Hello. You will be standing near an intersection. Please orient yourself so that the glass building with a bright green stripe is ahead and left of you. It has green signs with white letters.

Walk to the right. You will be in the center of the intersection. Go straight from here through the intersection. Continue straight on this path. You will pass some orange construction barriers to your right. Keep going. 

When you reach an intersection, go straight through it. 

To your right, You'll see a dark gray building with strips of ceiling lights showing through the glass. Walk straight, passing by some scaffolding with green awning, until you reach the next intersection.

At this next intersection, turn right and stop. Walk forward slightly. You will be standing on the crosswalk. To your left, there is a bright red pole next to some blue scaffolding. 

Touchdown will be on top of the red pole. Good luck! Go with traffic. Turn left at the first intersection. Look left and stop just pass the fire hydrant. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant. Turn so that the blue mailbox is on your right and go until the next intersection. Turn right at the intersection and continue until the next intersection. Turn right again and continue until you pass a fire hydrant with 2 orange and white cones next to it on your left. Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Turn right at the next intersection, keeping the rot iron fence on the right.
Turn right at the next intersection, you'll have red awnings on your right.
Turn right at the next intersection, there will be a phone booth on your right and a green wrap around awning on your left.
Go straight through the next intersection.
Just before the next intersection, come to a stop and look across, you'll see orange cones everywhere.  On the corner ahead of you is a trash can.  Touchdown is in the trash can. Turn away from the intersection and go ahead, with orange and white construction barriers along the road to your left. Go straight through the first 2 intersections, one you can't turn on and one you can. Ahead on this street, you will pass by low walls painted with scenery on both sides of the street. Stop before entering the next intersection. Looking to your right is a brick building with green awning. You should be just left of the awning that comes out on the sidewalk. Touchdown is in the middle of the gray diamond on that awning. From your starting point, turn around so that the green fence with the hand-shaped cutouts is on your right.  Move forward, into the intersection, and then stop.  

The map is tricky here, but without turning around, try to take a step back and to your right.  Again, without turning around, you should see an orange ladder directly in front of you.  Turn to your right, so that the ladder is now on your left and walk forward down this street.  There should be an orange and black (or dark green) storefront with graffiti on your right.  It will now be a long straight walk, so please ensure that you see a red storefront with shutters and graffiti, and then a green canopy on your right.  If so, you are on the right track, so you can just keep moving forward.  It's a long straight walk, so you can just breeze through it.  

Eventually you will come to an intersection.  Turn to your right so that the chain link fence and empty lot are on your left, and you see a shop with a red and white awning and a yellow sign on the left-hand sidewalk.  Walk straight up this road and into the next intersection.  

In the intersection, turn to your right so that you see a red brick building on the right and a blue shop front with a red awning on the left.  There are four motorcycles on a sign above that red awning.  Touchdown the Bear is sitting on top of the front wheel of the lead bike (the wheel that is closest to the intersection). Orient yourself with traffic on the one way street. Proceed straight and turn right at the intersection past the park. Proceed straight through two intersections, turning right at the third intersection with the divided lanes and the yellow restaurant sign with red Asian lettering on the right corner. Proceed to the corner of the next intersection with the painted red building with gold Asian lettering. Touchdown is on the corner directly above the two corner windows next to the drawing of the Asian man on the sign.  Orient yourself with traffic and proceed forward. At the stop sign, turn right. Proceed forward and turn right at the first light. Stop before the next light, but after passing a word painted on the street. Touchdown is waiting in the center seat of the bus stop that should be on your left. Follow traffic to the light and go right. Go right again at the next light, which you'll come to after passing green awnings on your right.  Go just a step left at the final light, where you'll have a food cart with red and yellow umbrellas to your right. Rotate right to face the right corner, where the corner shop has a red neon sign and blue awnings with white text. There is a tall rectangular information sign on the street between a trash can and an olive mailbox. Touchdown sits center atop the electronic sign. With the scaffolding on your right and the store with the large yellow sign on your left, go straight.  At the first intersection, take a left.  There will be some large colorful designs on the building to your right.  Go to the next intersection and Touchdown will be on the green sign on the traffic light pole to your left.  With the newspaper boxes to your left, go straight. When you hit the angled road, take a right. Go to the next interseciton which has a park to the right and the right. There is a lamppost to the left. Touchdown is in front of the base of the lamppost. Go with traffic. Turn right at the first intersection.  Green scaffolding will be on the left. Turn right again at the next intersection. Construction work will be on the right. Look left. Go pass the large group of bikes and stop next to the building with two flower boxes that has red and white flowers in them.  Look back at that same brick building, there are two lamps of either side of the door. Touchdown is sitting on the lamp on the same side of the address plate. Turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  There should be a dark blue awning on your left, and green scaffolding on your right.    Walk forward and stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to.  

Turn to your right, and walk down the street with two parked SUVs on the left and a pile of trash bags and cardboard boxes on the right.  

Walk straight through the first set of crosswalks and into the main intersection.  Then keep moving forward, go past some orange and white construction barriers on your right, and walk into the middle of the second set of crosswalks, where you should see a white building with black steps and a blue door.    

In front of these steps and the blue door is a metal post with faded red/maroon paint.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this red post.   Go with traffic toward the double stop signs. Go straight at the intersection. A large pile of trash is to your left.  Turn right at the next intersection that has double stop signs too. Turn right at the next intersection. The road will be brick paved.
Turn right at the intersection. White and orange road barriers will be on the right. Stop just pass the large gray dumpster to the right. Look left there is a red and gray fire hydrant. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant.  Turn and walk in the direction of traffic.  Go right at the first intersection.  There will be some one story green and grey buildings on your left.  Walk ahead.  At the next intersection, walk into the first land of moving traffic and turn around to look back a a brick building with a school mural along the bottom of it.  It has a green and blue door.  At the street corner in front of the building, see a regular size fire hydrant near a tall red hydrant of some sort.  Touchdown is sitting on the regular hydrant. Face against traffic to proceed into the intersection, then turn left. Ahead on the left is a black and white sign advertising for retail space and ahead on the right is a blue and white parking garage sign. Continue straight through one intersection and turn left at the second intersection down a one-way street. Continue about two-thirds of the way down the block. There is a parked yellow school bus on your right. Touchdown is on the stop sign on the left side of the bus.  Align yourself with the orange and white barricades to your left and go straight until you make your first possible right. Youll be on a tree-lined street and go straight until you pass a park on your right. Before the intersection, you will see an orange bike rack on the right, and Touchdown is on top of that, in the middle. Orient yourself with traffic. Proceed through the first traffic light. Turn right at the next intersection. Turn right again at the next light. Stop after passing a red building with pictures of massages on the second floor. Touchdown is on the face of the woman in the photos. Turn so the median strip with the bushes is on your left and move forward to the intersection.  Turn right, and you'll be on a narrow street with a mural on the left and construction scaffolding on the right.  Go straight through one intersection (stop sign), then turn right at the second intersection.  You'll be on a block with construction scaffolding on your right and a big green dumpster.  Go one short block to the next intersection and make another right.  You'll be on a narrow street with green awnings ahead on the left and a red storefront ahead on the right.  Stop when you're just past the red storefront on the right, and standing even with a sidewalk chalk board.  The bear is on top of the chalkboard. Orient yourself so that the building with construction and green awnings is on your left. Continue forward and then turn right at the intersection. Keep going forward and then turn right at the next intersection.There should be wood with orange netting on your right. You will reach the entrance of a building on your left. The touchdown is on the orange light on top of the parked white truck on the right. Orient yourself so a rectangular metal sculpture is ahead on your left. Exit the intersection and continue down the street. Drive past the animated billboard on the building to your right and pass through a light. Continue by another metal sculpture of similar style that looks sort of like a running human from this approach and go through this intersection too. You'll see some colorful squiggles ahead on a building, approach them and turn right just before them. Head down this road, being aware that the right lane is for a bus only. Wave to people eating at the top story of a restaurant on the right and pass a bus stop. Stop when you are just before a gap in the scaffolding that's on the left sidewalk. Touchdown is in the center of the neon light of the store ahead on the left. turn so you are going with traffic, there is orange fencing and scaffolding to your right. Take a left at the intersection, the bridge will be to your right.  continue straight to an intersection where you can see a fenced in area with lush green grass. Take a left here and the fenced in area will be on your right now. at the next intersection is a light pole with a green box on it, the box has graffiti on it, the bear is on that box Get turned so you are going the correct way down this street. When you get to the intersection make a right turn. There is a long green awning on your left side. Go one block and make another right turn. Now you have a burgundy awning on your right and brighter red but faded awnings on the left. Go most of the way down this street.  You'll pass basketball courts on the right side. Then you'll see bright red doors on the right. Keep going a little. There is a fenced parking area on the right side. Watch that and stop when the fence is still chainlink but gets really green. There is a yellow sign right there also and you should have that directly next to your right side. There is an orange cone on top of the green chainlink fence towards the corner of it. Touchdown is on that cone.  Orient yourself so that you re going down the one way street in the same direction as traffic.  You will be facing the right way if the corner store on your left has black awnings.  Move forward one block and turn right.  There will be a green store front on your left side.  Go forward one block and stop.  Touchdown bear is at the base of the grey light post between the grey bells on the right side (the side without a bench)  Turn so you are heading with the flow of traffic.  Take the first right, then the next right.  You are on this road for a while.  On the right near a parked red bus is a street sign that is leaning from being hit.  Stop next to it.  Look left.  There is a gold fire hose hookup with green tips.  The bear is on top. Face the same direction the cars on the street are facing. You'll see a stop sign immediately in front of you. Take a right at the stop sign. And travel until you see a traffic light. Take a right at the traffic light and move down the street until you reach another traffic light. At the traffic light, take another right. Travel a short distance until you reach another light, then take another right down a one-way street. On your left will be a colorful place for children, and some restaurants on your right. Go until you're even with the playground on your left. On your left before the 2 poles in the ground with the fire hydrant is a high street sign that's white with red writing and a red arrow. Touchdown is sitting on that sign. Turn to where you're going with traffic. Now go straight past the first intersection and keep going straight. You should now be heading down a street with blue bikes on your left. Keep going straight all the way down to the end of this street and stop. Look to your right and you should see a white van. The bear is on the headlight closest to you. Turn around until you're facing with traffic, then go forward a little bit to the intersection, and take a right. Yes, it really is that short to the intersection. Now go to the end of this block, which will be pretty long. Along the way you'll pass a very large alley on your left, this still counts as the same block, but that's a little over halfway there. Right past the crosswalk on the four way intersection at the end of the block, you're there. To the right, there will be a rectangular cube sign. Touchdown is on top of that. Go with traffic to the light. Go left, with the purple awning to your right and go to the next light. Go left, and stop immediately. 

Ahead and right is a blue mailbox, atop and center of which Touchdown sits. Going with the flow of traffic, go straight through this intersection. There will be some scaffolding on your right after the street vendors.  Near the end of the scaffolding on your right, you'll find Touchdown on top of a black and silver fire hydrant.  You're going to go with the flow of the traffic. Go forward past the fences on the right. When you come up to the intersection, you should see a bunch of cones to your right, workers, and a read truck. Take a left, and go down the road that leads towards where we started from. You're going to see a magazine shop on your right. Keep going past the scaffholding that's on your right. You should see a white healthcare van with different patterns on it. You should see a orange work zone sign. You will see scaffholding just straight ahead and there is a black equipment store to your right. Your touchdown will be the top of the yellow/green walk sign.  Align yourself with the flow of traffic, and head down to the first intersection. Make a right, and then shortly after, another right.

On your left on this road, there will be a row of parked cars. Stop when you get to the first break in the cars. There should be a ream up to the entrance of the building in front of you, and a couple potted plants in front of that. Touchdown is at the base of the potted plant closest to the tree planted on the right. Turn so the brown brick building is on your left.  Follow traffic forward and turn right at the intersection ahead.  Follow this road a very short way and turn right at your first opportunity. You'll have green construction on your left as you travel down this road, keep going through the first intersection and turn right at the next one.  High on your left you'll see a white flag with purple on it now.  Follow this road just past that white flag.  On the sidewalk near the awning of the store painted white with black trim there is a green mailbox followed by a blue one and a parking meter.  Touchdown is sitting on top of that green mailbox, right in the middle. Begin so you are moving with the flow of traffic. An intersection will be directly behind you and a couple trees with pink flowers in the bed below will be on your right. You'll take this street down a long block to an intersection. When you see a bright yellow motorcycle parked on the right side of the road, you're halfway there.

When you reach the intersection, turn right. When you get to the next intersection, move forward into the middle of it and you'll see a yellow newspaper stand ahead of you on the corner on the right. Touchdown is sitting right on top of that yellow stand.  On your right, you will  have a few traffic barrier barrels and strip.   Go with the flow of traffic, straight though the first two intersections.  Turn left at the third intersection.  You will have a church on your right. Go straight till you see the traffic cones on your left around a wood chipper.  Across the street on the right is a fire hydrant.  Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant.  Go with traffic down the one way. Turn right at the first intersection. A red building will be on the left corner. Go straight at the next intersection. Turn right at the next intersection. Traffic will be coming at you. Turn right again at the next intersection, a one way with road work barriers on the left. Look left and stop slightly pass the last orange cone.  Look back to the second to last orange cone, in the street. Touchdown is sitting on top of the that cone. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the fence on your right and the crosswalk just ahead of you. Move forward going straight past the crosswalk. Go straight past the next four way intersection. There should be a red brick building with a photo of a woman holding a bowling ball on your right. Continue moving forward to the next intersection and take a left. Reorient yourself so you are facing the water and continue moving forward. Soon you will come to a three-way intersection take a left. Reorient yourself so you are facing the direction of traffic with the double-wide median on your left and a green traffic sign above you. Continue moving forward on this road ignoring any 3-way intersections. Soon you will see some white and yellow striped dividers on your left. You should see an intersection just in front of you. move forward towards the intersection and stop before you enter the crosswalk. Turn to your left and you will see a green light pole in the median. Touchdown is sitting at the base of the green light pole. Stand so you are following the flow of traffic. Go into the intersection that is very close, and turn right. Go forward, passing green scaffolding on your right. You'll eventually reach an intersection; go right again. Then move to the next light and turn right again. Immediately on your left is a building with green brick and white brick columns. Touchdown is on top of the middle short white column. Turn and follow traffic down the street. There will be yellow cones to your left. Turn right at intersection. There will be yellow awning with red letters to the left. Turn right at intersection. There will be a long building with 8 garage doors on the right. You will pass some purple doors on the left. You will see an orange and white cone in the left lane and touchdown is on top. Orient yourself with the flow of traffic. Turn right at the first available intersection. At the end of the block, turn right again at the next available intersection. At the end of this block, in the intersection, there is a store with a blue awning on the upper left corner that is selling fresh flowers. Touchdown is on the ATM sign above the flowers.  Go with the flow of traffic and take a left at the intersection. There will be a green building on your right and a brick one on the left. There should be scaffolding on both the left and right. Take a left at the intersection. You should see blue bikes on the left with green on the right. Go to the next intersection and take a left. You should see a tanish building on the right with a bunch of windows and a red and white sign on your left. You will pass a bunch of scaffolding on the left. Go past the intersection until you go past the food truck, the two white delivery vans until you see the green and orange big delivery van. You will see a cone to your right behind a brown delivery truck. Your touchdown is the top.  Align yourself with the flow of traffic in your lane. You should see a yellow flag up ahead to your right on the pole. Head up to the intersection to make a right, and you should see an orange newspaper box and an olive post box after, on your left.Touchdown is on the olive post box. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the intersection just in front of you, Enter the intersection and go right, You should see a bunch of scaffolding on your right and a bank on the left with a green sign, Continue forward until you reach the next intersection and take a right, There should be a building with a purple and orange awning to your right, Continue straight going past the next intersection, You should see a small parking lot on the left and a pub just forward of that, Go forward until you are next to the pub and look to your left you should see a flag with a green, a white and an orange stripe, Click the bottom right corner of the orange stripe to find touchdown.
 Turn so the white building is on your left and you can travel the same direction as the cars.  Proceed down the road a short distance and turn right. The green construction will be on your right now.  Travel to the end of this block and turn right again at the intersection.   You'll now have a leafy green area on your left.  Follow that until you reach the first intersection and turn right.  You'll see a green awning on your left and a tan building on your right.  Pass the green awning and there is a set of concrete stairs leading up to a red brick building.  Stop there and look to the right of the staircase.  There is a black sign with glass.  Touchdown is in the exact middle of the sign to the right of the stairs. Position yourself in such a way that the food truck is to your left and then go forward, you should have construction work to your right. At the intersection turn right and then go straight. Reach the next intersection and turn right one more time. Keep going straight until you reach the street lights and then stop. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the top part of the red hydrant to your right. Follow the flow of traffic and make a right at the first traffic light, There will now be a building with a green logo with white letters to your right. Go down the street and stop right before you get to the second traffic light. There will be scaffolding to your right. Touchdown is on the white sign that is on the green scaffolding. Orient yourself so that the green truck is to your right. Move forward until you are parallel to the red fire hydrant on the right side of the road. Turn around until you are facing the red construction barrier which is across the intersection. Head towards the barrier. Move down the road with the barrier on your right side. Move foward until you are in the next intersection. Turn right. The construction barrier will still be on your right hand side. Go straight till the next intersection. Orient your point of view so that the large white billboard is on the right hand side in the distance. Move forward. Turn right at the next intersection. On your left will be construction scaffolding and your right will be the back of the billboard. Head straight and pass through the next intersection. Continue forward, you will pass more construction on the right with blue netting and scaffolding. Keep going straight. Pass through another intersection. Go forward until you see a metal ladder laying on its side on the right hand side of the road. Touchdown is on the sidewalk at the top step of the ladder.  Orient yourself to face the direction where a store with a red sign and white letters will be on your left. Go straight. You will first pass a three intersection with a black metal fence on your left. Keep going straight. You will pass a small parking lot on your right, keep going straight. The next intersection you come too looks to be a school on your left with a playground behind a black gate and light blue concrete. At this intersection turn right. You should know have brick apartments on your right. Go straight until you see a bus stop on your right with a sign for a phone. Touchdown will be on the name of the phone.  You are very close to an intersection, go towards it and go straight through. At the next intersection, you will make a right. You will have the tree lined median to your left and blue awning to you right. At the next intersection, you will veer slightly to the left before turning right. You will have red awning to your left and green awning to your right. Go straight through the next intersection, you will have a building with graffiti to your left and a red brick building on your right. At the next intersection you will make another right. The corner storefront on the left will be white with two black awnings. Up ahead on the right you will see a vertical red with white sign, stop just before it. You will see a small store front on the right with a horizontal green banner. On you r left will be where the grey building meets the red brick building. Turn towards the left and look at the red brick building with the white window area. Below the windows are two sets of double pipes with circles on the them. Touchdown is on the farthest red circle on the left. Orient yourself so that the food stand next to the delivery truck is on your left. Go straight and turn left at the next intersection. Stop before the next intersection and look to your left and across the street. There will be a red pole. The touchdown is at the bottom of it.  Follow traffic through the first light and go left at the next.  You'll pass a row of four olive colored mailboxes on your right as you get near the end of the block.  Watch to the left for the alleyway behind the last building on the left, and stop just before your pass it.  Rotate left to face it.  Touchdown is on the yellow bollard just to the right of the tall black fence. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and the blue awning on your left.
Go straight through the next intersection.  You will see a large mural up ahead on the left.
Turn right at the next intersection.  Stop just before the crosswalk ahead and you will find Touchdown on the white part of the bell closest to you.
 Align yourself with the flow of traffic in your lane. Head to the intersection, and make a right. At the next intersection, make another right. You should see construction blockades on your right and a green fence on your left. 

Ignore the first intersection, and make a right at the next one. Right before the next turn, you should see a silver and black fire hydrant to your left, between two silver poles. Touchdown is on top of the silver part of the hydrant. Orient yourself so the playground is on your right and a divided median with landscaping on your left. Continue straight through two intersections and turn left at the third. There will be a bank on your right and a closed store with scaffolding above it on the left. Turn left down the one way street with a pharmacy on your right and a wine store on your left. Continue straight until you see a medical office on the left with a large red cross on the sign above the door. Touchdown is on the cross.  Orient yourself so the the blue bikes are on your left. go forward and turn left at the next intersection. Go forward and then turn left at the next intersection. Go straight through the next intersection and then stop. There will be a blue mailbox on your left. The touchdown is the white logo on the box.  Go with the flow of traffic and turn left at the first intersection. You'll have a black wavy awning to your left. Go straight to the next intersection and turn left.   Up ahead a ways there will be scaffolding on your left.  Go past all the scaffolding.  Touch down will be sitting ahead on a bicycle basket that ahead on the right.  The bike is next to a green pole.  Go into the intersection directly next to you and turn left.
Turn left at the next intersection on the far side of the intersection so you're moving with traffic
Go straight through the next 3-way intersection.
Turn right at the next intersection and stop at the crosswalk.
Look left and you'll see a yellow newspaper box near the corner.
Touchdown is on that yellow box. Turn until the red doors are on your right. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left. There should be green scaffolding to your left. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left. There should be a yellow painted metal door to your left. Walk forward past the little park on your right and stop right where the parks fence meets the brown building with the gray door. Touchdown is at the top of the steps in front of the building's door. Orient yourself so the large brick building with the brown garage door is on your left and the vacant lot with construction vehicles is to your right.  Travel down this road to the first intersection.  Turn left,and follow the traffic towards the tall glass buildings in the distance.  At the first intersection you come to, turn left.  There will be a purple and orange store sign on your right and a orange green and red striped sign on your left.  Begin traveling down this road.  Look for three large trees on your right side.  Just past those trees, on the same side, is a parking lot for the purple and orange business's trucks.  On the sidewalk in front of the entrance to the lot is a black and silver fire hydrant surrounded by two poles.  Touchdown is the top of the fire hydrant.  Face in the direction so the cream-colored building is on the left and the black with red building is on the right. Go to the intersection and turn right. A bright red door is on the right corner. You will find the Touchdown on the seat of the silver bike that is locked to the green pole on the right corner.  Turn and go with the flow of traffic so that the purple building is on your right.Go to the first light and turn left.There will be a chain link fence on your left,go to the first traffic light and make another left turn.Follow this road to the first light and turn right. Right after you make the turn stop and look to your left you will see a garbage can and 4 paper boxes on the red box with a blue sign is where you will find Touchdown right on that blue sign. Align yourself with the ambulance and red car behind it. Go forward, and at the next intersection, take a right. Halfway down the road, there will be three red doors on your right. Touchdown is on the closed door furthest to the right. Turn down so you're facing in the same direction as the parked cars. Walk down to the corner.

Turn right - you will have a blue awning with red writing on your left.

Walk most of the way down the street, on the left, you'll see a shop with red blue, green, and yellow letters for a sign. Next door is a show with one black rolling door and one red one. Touchdown is on the top left corner of the red rolling door. Orient yourself to face the intersection you are closest to and continue straight through it. Turn right at the next intersection down the one way street. A building with unique architecture supports is on your left and an empty storefront with coming soon and now hiring signs on the right. At the end of this block, turn right again. There is a red bus-only lane to the far right of this street. Continue to the end of this block and enter the intersection. To the left is a blue mailbox next to a black mesh trash can. Behind it is a health food sign over an empty storefront for rent. In front of that is a parked brown SUV overhanging the parking area. Touchdown is on top of the blue mailbox.  Align yourself with the flow of traffic, with the scaffolding on your left. head up to the intersection and make a right. There should be a store with a red awning on your left after the turn. Take another right after the short road at the next intersection.

Once you see the striped construction blockades head to the end and a step past them. After the blockades, you should see a pile of garbage on your right. Touchdown is sitting on top of the highest cardboard box in the middle. Turn so you'll be walking in the same direction cars are going on this one-way street.  At the first intersection you come to, turn right.  Go straight through one intersection, and then walk to the second intersection.  At the second intersection, click like you're turning right, and then as soon as you've done that, stay in the crosswalk area to look for the bear (i.e., you're starting to turn right, but not really moving down that street). On your right there are a bunch of empty bike rental racks.  On your left there is a postal mailbox with a poster or sign on it, and a bunch of graffiti.  The bear is on top of the mailbox. Enter the intersection you are at and go right. You are on the wrong side of the road.  At the upcoming 3 way intersection, go right. There is a large mural of a cartoon character on the building to your right. At the next intersection, go right. Stop just before entering the next intersection and turn to look down the street on your right. There is a black curved arrow on a white sign in the middle of the street. Touchdown is sitting on top of that arrow. (The arrow on the very bottom white sign) turn so that you are moving with the flow of traffic and head to the first intersection
take a right and at the next intersection take another right
when you get to the next intersection again take yet another right 
continue straight and stop in the middle of the next intersection now take 1 more step forward 
look to your right there is a black sign on the building with a circle and blue words
touchdown is sitting in the middle of this sign  Turn so that you're facing the same way the cars are driving. Go straight until the next intersection, then turn right. Continue straight past the next 2 intersections. Just before you reach the 3rd intersection, there will be a black fire hydrant on the right side of the road. Touchdown is sitting at the base of the fire hydrant, facing the curb. Orient so the fenced in parking lot is behind you on your right and you are going the same direction as the traffic.  Walk forward to the intersection and turn right.  Once more, walk forward to the intersection and turn  right.  Step out of the intersection and stop.  Look to your left.  There is a black fire hydrant with a grey top.  Touchdown is on the grey part of the fire hydrant.   Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Head to the nearest intersection.  Turn right, then take the next right.  Take a step forward and look right.  You should be in front of a window with a cage over it.  The bear is on where the AC unit is.   Go with the flow of traffic.  Go straight through the 3-way intersection.  When you reach the big 5-way intersection, look for the red and white vertical banner.  You'll want to go down the street that is directly to the left of this.  You'll know you're on the right track when there are trees and bushes to your left and a store with a blue stripe on top on your right.  Head down this street to a 3-way intersection.  Turn right.  There will be scaffolding on your right and a small brick plaza on your left.  Go down this street, Just past the 3-way intersection.  Make sure you pass the small red street sign to your left. Once you're done that, you'll see an identical red street sign on your right.  It will be in front of a tan building that has green Chinese characters on it.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this red sign.   Turn so that you are going with traffic and into the intersection that is very close to the starting point. At that intersection turn left. Once you turn left there will be blue poles on the scaffolding to the left side. Go straight until the next intersection. Turn left. There will be a building with columns and spaced out planters and also some flags on the left side. Go straight until the next intersection. Turn left. When you turn you will see the road forks.Go straight until you get to the next intersection. Turn left again. You will reach another intersection in a short distance.. Keep going straight through it. Go straight a short distance. You will get just past a long blue covered dumpster on the right. There is also scaffolding that has silver poles. On the last pole (double poles) on the corner near the street Touchdown is on the ground leaning against that pole. Align yourself so the hydrant is on your right, and there's two stop ahead signs in front of you. You'll head straight through one intersection, and make a right at the second. Head through two left turns, and after the second left turn, there will be a red sort of adobe building on your right. Take not of the 5 lights above the large glass windows of the building. Touchdown is on the middle light. Turn so that you're walking with the traffic. Go forward and continue straight at the next intersection. At the next intersection turn left. Turn left again at the next intersection. You will be passing some orange and white construction barriers on the right. Touchdown is on top of the last orange barrier. Align yourself so that the red shuttered door is on your left. Head up to the intersection to make a left. Shortly after make another left. The scaffolding with a ladder on it should now be on your left after the turn a few steps up. The scaffolding on the left will wrap in and out with the buildings, and when you reach the end of it, there will be a yellow sign. Touchdown is in the middle of the yellow sign. Turn and follow the flow of traffic.  Take the first right.  Pass through one intersection, but stop in the next.  On your right, in the middle of the street, is two white posts.  The bear is on the top of the left one (Farthest from you). Look for the orange detour sign and go straight.
Turn left when you enter the intersection after the sign.
Traffic will be coming at you.
Keep going straight 
Turn right at the intersection. Looking at the yellow and black traffic barrels a cross the street.
Move into the intersection and turn back around and go back left.
Stop when you go into the next intersection. At the corner with the red building with artwork on the side of it. Outside the red building is two black benches. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the first black bench Turn to face with traffic, then go forward until you pass a food cart on your left, and there is a large vertical billboard on your right. It will be less than a block. Touchdown is at the tip top of the food cart's umbrella.  You're starting at an intersection. You'll want to be traveling with the flow of traffic on the road that puts a green building on the corner to your right and a building with a lot of windows on your left. Go straight through the first intersection. Go straight through the second intersection. A large building with a lot of glass and light blue flags will be on your left. Again, go straight through the third intersection. When you finally reach the fourth intersection, turn left. Immediately on the left, you'll see a bright green sign on the corner of a building. There are two letters on the green sign facing the street you are now on. Touchdown is right in the middle of those two letters.  Put the colored fruit building on your right and move forward to the next intersection. Turn right and move forward. Turn right again at the very next opportunity. Touchdown is on a manhole cover directly in front of the UPS truck ahead. With the two scaffoldings extending ahead, go straight. Take a right at the first intersection. Take a right at the next scaffolding. Pay attention to the left. There is a church with colorful windows to the left. Touchdown is between the two yellow windows. Position yourself moving with the flow of traffic. There will be a blue brick wall on your left. At the first intersection, turn right. On your right, you will see a business with blue trim and awnings and outdoor tables and chairs. At the next intersection, turn right again. After you turn, the business on your right will have a red and yellow sign. 

Take this street past a construction barrier on your right and all the way down towards the next intersection. Before you reach the intersection, you'll see two dark mailboxes next to a tree on your left. Touchdown is sitting on top of the mailbox that's closest to the tree. Follow traffic through the first light and turn left at the second.  At the end of the block you'll have dual stop signs and see green awning way in front of you, with three yellow bollards directly in front of you in the median. Go left.  Stop when you're even with the blue-grey door on your left, before two long windows with white framing.  Ahead to your left, you can just see the yellow stripe of a parking meter before the door with two globe lights.

Touchdown is on the bottom rung of the ladder before the first dome light.
 Go into the intersection and turn right. There will be a building with red awnings all the way down the block on the right. Go through the first intersection, there is a big building with two American flags on it on the left. Go straight through the next intersection towards the billboard of the little girl with balloons on the left. Bear left around the next corner. You are now going against traffic.At the next corner turn right, now moving with the flow of traffic. At the next corner is a white van on the right with an orange safety cone near the tire. Touchdown is sitting on the ground in front of the cone. Turn so you are going in the same direction as the cars. Head down the street. At the intersection take a right. Go down the street. At the next intersection take another right. Go a short distance and stop before the red construction dumpster. Look to your left. Touchdown is in the middle of the white sign on the easel that is on the sidewalk.   Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic facing the intersection right next to you.  Go through the intersection.  The business on the right is almost completely painted green.  You will come up to an intersection that has a large black fenced in area on the right.  Turn right.  At the next intersection, turn right again, keeping that black fenced in area on your right.  Go forward, past the dumpster.  Step into the next intersection that has a narrow street heading slightly off to the right.  On that corner is a green trash can in front of a store with black awnings.  Trashcan is hiding on the trash can. Orient yourself so there is a garage with open doors and bikes on your right and a fusion restaurant  on your left.. Go straight and make a right at the first intersection. Go straight again until the next intersection. (there will be a bank on the right). Make a right here as well. Follow traffic and make one more right at the next intersection. At the next stop light there will be a donut shop on the left with red awnings. The touchdown is located on the stop light closest to these awnings. You are on a one way road, go with the flow of traffic. Go straight through the next intersection. Make a left at the next intersection. There will a piece of heavy machinery for construction to your left, go past it. On your right, you will see three red garage doors, stop before the first one. Turn to your right and you will see a mural painted on a fence. On the building to the left of the fence you will see two red lights. Touchdown will be on the first red light closest to you. Orient yourself so you are going in the same direction as traffic.  There should be scaffolding on your right had side.  At the intersection, turn right.  Go forward one block and turn right again.  Note, there are no lights at this intersection.  As you go down this block, you should have a row of parked blue bikes on your right.  Go to the end of this block and turn right again.  Stop just before the intersection.  On the corner on your left is a restaurant with a green, white and right flag on the side of the restaurant sign.  Touch down bear is in the center of that flag.   With the park to your back, go down the street ahead.   There's an iron gate on your right. Go to the next intersection and turn right. There's an american flag on your left.  Go to the next intersection and turn right. There's iron fences in front of buildings on the left and right.  At the next intersection turn right again.  You'll have a park to your left.  There's a row of traffic cones on your right.  Touchdown is on top of the very last traffic cone near the light at the next intersection. Align yourself so that the traffic cone van is on your left. Head up to the intersection to make a right, then another right shortly after.

You'll come across a closed off part of the road with a green wall covering it when you're close. Stop when you have the red sign on your right in front of you towards the next intersection. Touchdown is on the tip of the hydrant in front of the sign. Follow traffic and go through the light.  Go left at the next one.
Go through the next light.  Stop after the scaffolding on the right, and rotate right, to look at the divider between a building with a green awning and yellow text and a maroon awning and white text.

Touchdown is on the green pipe in front of the pillar between the two shops. You actually start in an intersection. Turn so the construction barriers that are right at the corner of the intersection are on your right, and go that direction. Go down to to the next intersection and take a left. At the next intersection go left again. Finally at the next intersection take a third left.  Keep an eye on the right side you should pass a green store front.  On the right you will then see a handrail painted blue. with a door down some stairs from the street. Pass this and you will see an open door next to the blue handrail. Stop there. 

Touchdown is on the awning, covering the next doorway to your left. It is on top of the corner closest to you. 

 Going with the flow of traffic, turn left at the second light.  There should be a median that has an ornate fence to your left. Go forward until you see the large green human outline sculpture on your right.  Touchdown is hiding in the center of the green head. Turn and go in the direction with the traffic. A painted red building to the right. Turn left at the intersection. A burgundy awning to the right. Go straight at the first intersection. Turn left at the next intersection and stop.  You will be going in the same direction as cars. Look to the right and you will see a green garbage can.. Touchdown is sitting on top.  Go with the flow of traffic to the first light and take a right turn. The first light you pass, you can't turn at.  The next light will be a four way light with a mural to your right, go straight through it. At the next light take a right turn.  Touchdown will be on top of a fire hydrant before the two motorcycles. Move with the flow of traffic, passing scaffolding with the blue tarp on your right. Continue down this long street until you reach an intersection, and turn left.

Now you should have a black store with gold writing on your left corner, and a tan building with brown sign and white writing on your right. Continue with traffic, and pass straight through the first intersection. At the second, move straight through it and stop. On your left is a subway entrance with green railing. It has two posts with a green and white ball on top. Touchdown is on top of the post closest to you. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Go straight through the next intersection, passing the building on the right covered with green boards.
Turn left at the next intersection and you should see some red awnings on your left.  Head down past some cones in the road and hang a left at the very next intersection and ensure that you are in oncoming traffic.
Head down this road and before you get to the next intersection, you should see a window on the right with a blue X on it on the second floor.  Touchdown is hiding in this window.
 Turn so the building with the green trim around the windows is on your right, and you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street.  Go forward until you reach an intersection, and turn left.
You'll now be on a block with construction scaffolding (red on top) on your right.  Go forward one short block and turn left at the intersection.  You'll be on a narrow one-way street.  Go forward until you see two potted trees on the left - they're in round black planters.  Move forward until you're in between these two trees.  the bear is in the pot of the first tree (more to your left if you're standing facing the trees).   Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  A pile of trash bags will be on your right.  Go down to the first intersection and turn left.  Once you do you'll have a green awning on your right.

At the next intersection, turn left.  Once you do, you'll see a red awning on the corner to your left.  Go down that street and you'll eventually get to a big black sign with white lettering.  If you look left there you'll see vehicles stacked up in a metal frame.  Touchdown is on the hood of the yellow vehicle at the top in the middle. Orient yourself in the direction of traffic and go straight (do not take a right). You should be on a bridge. There are porta potties on the right below. Touchdown is sitting on the first one. Turn so you are heading with the flow of traffic.  Take the first left, then the next left.  Take a couple steps forward and look right.  There are 3 Motorcycles.  The bear is on the headlight of the middle one. Begin moving with the flow of traffic. Bright red arched doorways will be on your left. Just ahead is the first intersection. Turn right there. After you turn, an orange sign will be on your right and a blue one on your left. 

At the next intersection, you'll see a gray building with graffiti on your right. Make another right turn there. 

Pass through the first intersection you get to on this street (there won't be any traffic lights). A business with a green sign is on your right and green scaffolding on your left. Shortly after that is another intersection. Turn right and move forward to the large dumpster with blue tarp on your right. Just before the dumpster, you'll see a blue wheelbarrow next to a chair close to the brick building. Touchdown is sitting in the center of the wheelbarrow.  With an orange construction fence directly to your left, go with traffic to the tunnel ahead.  There are brown walls on both sides of the entrance.  Upon entering the tunnel, you have no choice but to veer left. Do it and stop. Now, turn directly around and go in the wrong direction of traffic. Soon, take the opportunity to get into the left lane, upon which you will immediately exit the tunnel. Stay straight, veering left, going left at the 4 way intersection coming up. Now there is a big white and gray building on your right. As soon as you go ahead, the building turns into a short green wall. Keep going straight. Instead of going left when given the choice, go straight toward the 4 way intersection. Finally getting in the middle of it, go left. There is a large sign on the brick building ahead to the right. Stop before getting to it and turn to look to your left, across the street. You should be standing in front of a chain link gate.Touchdown is directly in the middle of the white sign with red letters to the left of the gate, on an iron fence, covering up most of the letters. Position yourself so the green wall is on your left. When you get to the first intersection, turn right. Now, a green bench will be on the sidewalk on your left and just ahead on your right is a business with red lettering for a sign. 

When you get to the next intersection, turn right again. You'll see a row of blue rental bikes on your left. You'll have scaffolding at a few points on both sides. At one point, you'll pass beside orange fencing and an orange and white construction barrier in the road. 

Shortly after this, you'll see a white building on your right with a light green sign. It has a lot of windows and outdoor seating behind a raised white bed of shrubs. Now,  look at the two small trees in front of it on the sidewalk. You'll see an orange traffic cone next to one of the trees. Touchdown is on the tip of the cone.  Orient yourself with traffic and proceed. Turn right at the first light, then turn right at the next light as well. Stop when you pass a magenta awning with gold poles on the right side of the sidewalk, it'll be just pass some scaffolding. There should be a green mailbox with mail bins on the right as well. Touchdown is on top of the mailbox. From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  There should be a white truck with graffiti parked on your right.  

Move forward and stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to.  Turn to your left.  You should be looking down a wide one-way street that has blue awnings on the left and green awnings on the right.  Walk down this street.  

Stop in the middle of the intersection, and turn to your left.  You should now be facing down a narrow street.  On the left is a shop with a blue awning, and on the right is a shop with racks of plants and a blue flag hanging down from its wall.  

Walk down this narrow road, so that the blue flag is on your right.  You will pass a large green cargo box on your left, and then a larger red box shortly thereafter.  

When you have passed the red box, look to your right (and perhaps slightly behind you).  You should see black fire hydrant with a silver cap next to some green mailboxes.  Touchdown is sitting on top of that hydrant.   With the white tents to your left, go down the cobblestone road and pastraight the red covered windows on the right. At the first intersection, take a right. Go straight pastraighting through an intersection with a building that has a blue theme to the right. Eventually you will see a building with a picture of a tooth to the left. Touchdown is on top of the tooth. Go with traffic across the first intersection. There will be green scaffolding on the right.
Turn right at the next intersection.
Turn right again at the next intersection.
Stop at the large red brick building on the left that has the art work painted at the bottom. 
There is a green trash can with a blue bag in it behind a parked police car in front of the building. Touchdown is sitting on the middle of the blue bag in the trash can. Orient yourself to face a mail truck and a street worker holding a sign. Go straight all the way to your first intersection. There will be dumpsters on your right. Turn right. Go straight and pass under the bridge. when under the bridge you will see a green fence on your right. Turn right. There will be some port-o-potties on your left. Move just past these potties and touchdown is on the left most wheel of the tractor on the center of the yellow part. Turn to go with the flow of traffic.

Go forward and stay on the LEFT side of the road when you're offered the split to the offramp.  Go forward until you're overlooking a street next to a court of some form.  You should be right next to a couple poles with some signs and lights on them.

Touchdown is on the green sign down below. Turn and face the same direction that the traffic is going, with the red awning on your right and go forward. Stop when you pass the first traffic light and look to your right, Touchdown will be on the center of the black and white sign with the arrow, that is on the silver pole where the crosswalk sign is at. Move in the direction of traffic.  There will be scaffolding over the sidewalk just ahead on your right.  Pass straight through the first intersection: just after there will be a red brick building on the right and one being renovated on the left.  Just before reaching the next intersection you'll see a public phone (also under scaffolding) on the right with three grey posts in front of it.  The post on the right is leaning to the right.  Touchdown is at the base of that rightmost post. Position yourself so the mural painting is on your right side.
Travel down this road to the first intersection, take a right.
You should see a large glass of beer, move toward it.
The touchdown is in the middle of the blue circle on the glass. Turn so that you are facing a building with blue awnings that will be on the right corner. On the street you will want to travel down has a row of blue bicycles set up along the road front. Take a left at the intersection. On the right will have a building with a black wrought iron fence.At the next inteerection, you come to there will be a road going to the left turn down that street. It will be a brick street. Towards the end of this street before the intersection, there are some solid white and orane barriers along the building edge on the right side. The Touchdown is on the top corner of the white barrier at the corner.   Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic but the orange and white construction barriers on your right.  continue forward to the next intersection and take a left. You should see a white building on your left and a black building with the blue awning on your right. Continue forward to the next intersection and take another left. You should see a green storefront on your right and a storefront with a yellow awning ahead of that. Move forward to the next intersection and go straight. You should be standing on the crosswalk of the intersection. Turn to your right and you'll see a  a light pole with a green box hanging off of it. Touchdown is sitting at the base of the light pole. Go straight against the direction of traffic, with the arches to your right. go all the way to the next intersection. Take a right. There are several of arches to your right. There is a rotating brass doorway to your right. Touchdown is in the doorway. If you are in the correct position there should be a white brick building with yellow bricks on the top half of the billing. This building is to your left. To your right should be a great building made of brick beside a red building made of brick. Once you are the correct position please head straight. Please head to the first intersection then make a left. If you made the correct left on your right you will see orange construction barriers along the green wooden fence. Directly across the street you'll see a brick engraved building with small square windows. Please continue straight on the street. You will go past the place where you have the option to veer and continue straight. A short distance later you will see a white storefront with double doors in an air conditioner in the corner. This is on the bottom of a whitish colored brick building. Touchdown is directly in front of the air conditioner. Align yourself with the purple and orange awning store on your right, and the glass store on your left. You want to head down this small street. A few steps before the next intersection, you should see a plaza to your left, with two green signs on the fenced entrance. Touchdown is in the middle of the left green sign. Face the direction of traffic, with the green store sign to your right, and make a right. Follow the building with the green store sign and continue on until you reach the third traffic light. Make a right at that third traffic light, with the red store sign with blue letters on your right. Go forward and stop when you reach the black awning with the pink letters. Touchdown is on the middle letter. With the construction to your right, take a right at the first light. Go straight. There is construction to your left. Go straight through the first light. At the next intersection there is construction ahead. Go right through it. Go through the next intersection, which has slanted barriers. There is an open cage-like door to the right. Touchdown is sitting in the open doorway. Turn and walk in the same direction as traffic, there will be a blue door on your right. Go ahead and go left at the upcoming intersection. There are orange and white traffic barrels on your right. Go left at the next intersection. The right side of the street has scaffolding along it. Further down the street, scaffolding begins on the left side as well. You will see a white and grey mattress leaning against the wall to your left. Pass by it and turn to look to your left. You will be facing a large brown arched door with white signs on the walls on both sides of it. Touchdown is sitting on the ground in the center of that brown door, with his back against it.  Move with traffic with the scaffolding to your right. At the corner turn left, then immediately turn left again, completing a U-turn. Go down this road. 

Go past the road that goes left, just go straight. You will have another road go left come up. Keep going straight. At this point there should be a darker red awning on your right with a bus stop in front of the store. 

Turn to your right to see the bus stop. Touchdown is on the bench sitting in the center. Begin by turning slightly to the left. You'll be directly behind a white moving van. Move forward until you reach a three-way intersection. Take a right, and begin moving forward. Continue through a four-way intersection and take another right when you meet the next four-way intersection. Move forward until the yellow vehicle in front of you is right next to the orange traffic cones. To the left of those cones is a gray garbage can. Touchdown is sitting on top of it. Orient yourself so you can see the intersection. Go to the intersection, turn right. Go straight through 2 intersections. Just past the second intersection there is a building decorated with large signs with a background of black and white stripes, and blue stripes. There are large, multi colored ribbons in the foreground of the decoration. There are a pair of double doors on this building. Touchdown is sitting at the top of these doors. Begin moving with the flow of traffic, and turn left at the light just ahead of you. At the next intersection, take another left. After you turn, you'll see a red post on your right and green scaffolding on your left. 

Go straight to the next traffic light, and make a final left turn. After you turn, the business on your left has small green signs, and you can see four flags just ahead on your right. Go straight until you're in line with the American flag. Touchdown is at the very point of the pole holding the flag.  Turn with the flow of traffic. Walk down to the corner.

Turn left. Walk down to the next corner. Turn left again. You'll have a business with a square green logo with white letters. Walk to the next intersection.

Walk into the intersection and turn left. Just turn - do not go anywhere. Touchdown is sitting at the base of the tree planted amongst some greenery in the traffic island.
 Turn so you're facing in the direction of traffic. Continue forward until you reach the intersection with stop signs, then turn left. At the next intersection turn right. At the next intersection, one corner will have a brick wall around the property. The wall is white with red brick posts. Touchdown is sitting on the ground by the very corner brick post. Turn so you are going with traffic. At the light ahead go right. Rental bicycles to your left. Go straight with traffic through the next intersection and go one more block. Stop on the other side of the crosswalk here. There will be a median on the left side of the street with two white posts with orange stripes on them. Touchdown is sitting on the post on the right.  Align yourself against traffic. Head to the intersection in front of you and make a left.

Head down to the next intersection and stop at the intersection, on your right  across the street you'll see a blue ad on a phone booth, and to the right of it, a blue post box and a yellow newspaper box. Touchdown is on top of the blue post box. Find the parked school bus and go down that road to the intersection.  Turn left. You will be going against the flow of traffic.  Go through 3 intersections.  Stop in the 4th intersection.   The bear is on top of the Police Officers hat.   Turn so you are facing the same way as the parked cars. Go straight just a bit and you will be at an intersection. Turn left. Go straight until you come to an intersection. There is a crosswalk painted on the road. Right at this crosswalk on the right side of the road on the corner, there is a white speed limit sign. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of this sign.  Follow the road so that there are a bunch of blue bikes on your right at the first traffic light turn right.Go one traffic light and turn right again.Go for a litte ways down this road till you come to some orange and white road barriers DO NOT go to the barrier. On you left you will see 2 garbage canes before a set of steps and touchdown is sitting on the can to the left Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic  with the white and red brick wall slightly to your right in front of you. Continue moving forward going past the far crosswalk. Keep moving forward ignoring any  three way intersections until you get to the next four way intersection. Enter the intersection and take a right. You should see several trees to your right and a red brick building to the right with stone benches in front of it. Continue to the next intersection and go straight. You should see a tan colored building to your right with two trees in a fenced-off area in front of it. Continue going straight down this road keeping to the right. Stop when you have passed the near crosswalk of the next intersection. Turn to your left and you will see a black fire hydrant at the end of the crosswalk next to a tree. You will find touchdown sitting at the base of the black fire hydrant. GO WITH flow, GO RIGHT at light, GO LEFT at the SECOND light, passing a building with large glass windows and black bricks with glowing red 3D letters on the left corner and STOP after the red awning with white text on your right. ROTATE RIGHT.  You should be facing a glass door under a white arch, between two blue awnings on the left and the red awning on the right.   To the right of the door is a small diamond hole in the wall above the bush in the black planter.

FIND Touchdown affixed to that hole. Follow traffic to the light and go left.  Go left again at the next light. Stop at the first window with the green background and white dome displaying a dress on the right hand side.   Touchdown is on the very first lantern style light, to the right of that window. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  Visibility is poor here, so when you come out of the tunnel you should be moving slightly uphill with an archway ahead.  As you leave the archway, you will stay left at the split and then go right when you have to.  You will be on the right side of the barriers and the triangular median ahead.  Go back left immediately and continue down the road around the slight bend to the left.  At the intersection, take a left, and you should see a construction light sign immediately on your left, pass it and hang an immediate left.  Move into the crosswalk and stop.  You should have a bent over orange cone on your left and a yellow/black striped sign on your right.  Touchdown is hiding on the yellow/black sign. If you look around there should be a tall glass building on your left and perhaps a brown brick building to your right. Head straight in between the building and follow the road. Skip the first intersection you come across midway and keep on moving forward. You should notice a cellphone company near the intersection on your right. Thus make a right turn when you reach the intersection. Follow the road and look around till your in front of a blue building that serves food and alcohol drinks on your right hand side. A little further you should notice a black fire hydrant. The touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant. Head down the road the same ways as the cars. Turn right. The waterfront and boat will be on your left side and a pedestrian bridge is overhead just in front of you.in the median in the middle of the road there is a concrete support for the pedestrian bridge. Touchdown is on the grass at the base of that. Stand so you are following the flow of traffic. Cross straight through the first intersection and continue. At the next intersection (with a green awning and a mailbox on the corner ahead to your right), turn right. Go down this street until you are almost at the stoplight. Face right and there is a small store with gray sign and red writing. On the side is a stripe that is white, with blue and red stripes going up it. Touchdown is in the middle of this stripe. Follow the flow of traffic, with the scaffolding on your left, pass the line of blue bikes and make a left at the intersection. 
Pass the gray storefront on your left and continue until you reach the second intersection, with the red awnings on your right,  than make your last left at that intersection, passing an American flag and stopping before reaching the intersection. 
On your right, there will be a green storefront, with brown framed windows and two small trees on either side. Touchdown is on the ground in front of the brown pot of the small tree on the right of that green storefront. Put the nearest intersection behind you. Take the first right you come to. Proceed past the open truck and boxes, past the construction, and take another right. Keep going until there is a brown stone fence on your left. Tochdown is sitting on one of the columns. Turn and go in the direction with the traffic.Turn right at intersection. Scaffolding on the right.  At the next intersection. Stand in the middle and look up ahead to the right. Touchdown is on top of the traffic light.  Go with the flow of traffic.  When you get to the first intersection, turn right.  There will be a fenced in empty lot on your right.  Proceed forward.  Pass through the first intersection; turn right at the second one.  There will be a reddish brick building and cars parked on the right side of the street. Go down this street, stopping just before you enter the first crosswalk.  look up and to your left.  There is a red sign with white lettering.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the pole that this sign is mounted on.   Turn so the red brick building is on your right. Go to the corner and turn right. 

Go down this road with traffic flow, going through the 3-way intersection, then turning right at the next intersection. An elevated roadway is on your left when you turn.

Go to the next intersection a short ways up and turn right.

Go just a short way, past the tall fenced in area to the left, then notice benches on the left in front of a short chain link fence. Touchdown is on the bench on the left on the left side.

 Turn and follow traffic down the street. A white building will be on left.  A fence with blue, yellow and red will be on your right. You will pass a yellow sign with people on it on your right. Continue thru the intersection and go under the bridge. There will another intersection as soon as you come out from under bridge. Turn left at intersection. There will be a green dumpster to your right. Continue until you see 2 stop signs. One on the left and one on the right. Turn left at the stop sign.  You will go under another bridge. When you come out from under the bridge there will be 2 stop signs. One is on left and one on the right. On top of the left stop sign is a black and white sign with and arrow. Touchdown is in the middle of the black and white sign. Enter the closest intersection, then turn left.  You will go through 2 intersections, but not into the 3rd.  On your left is a big arch window.  Just barely after you pass it, look at it.  At the top of the arch is a wooden panel with a fan in the middle.  The bear is in the fan.   Follow traffic to the light and go left, then do it again, and once more.

Left corner shop should be a black storefront with glass windows and huge neon red dimensional text.  Go down street, passing a parking garage on the left and stop just before passing the grey entryway canopy on your right.

Face right. The canopy should be to your left as you're facing the building.

Touchdown is dead center on the face of the canopy, affixed to the white symbol slightly under the dome.

 Follow traffic and make a left at each light until you've passed three lights.

Street Verification: You should see a grey storefront on the right corner with yellow stripes behind the lights on the pillars, and a blue storefront with a blue entry canopy and a red fire escape and awning further up.

Go up the street, just passing the blue building with the red door on your left, so the black fencing and tree is on your left, and there're shops with a brown awning and blue awning, both with white text, to your right.  

Above the blue awning is an air conditioner on the last wooden panel, under the glass windows. Touchdown is affixed and in the center of the air conditioner grill.
 Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. On your left, there should be a black storefront and a white-and-gray-striped awning next to it.

2. At the first intersection, take a right. There should be black fencing around trees and other foliage on either side of the street.

3. Passing by some blue bikes on the left, take another right at the next intersection. There should be a large park to your left and a long line of traffic cones to your right.

4. Pass through the first intersection, and take another right at the next one. There should be orange crowd control barriers, concrete barriers, and traffic barrels on your left. Your destination is close.

5. You should see a little white tent on the right. Stop when you're right next to it. Touchdown is sitting on the top point of this tent.

Good luck! :) Orient yourself so the park is behind you and to your right. Proceed forward. Turn left at the next light. Stop when you are even with the end of the last green awning on the left. Touchdown is on the parking terminal in front of the store with this awning. Turn around and align yourself so the construction fenced in materials are on your right, and head up the street with the flow of traffic. You'll head straight through an intersection, to make a left at the next. There should be the ending of scaffolding from the previous street, and a ton of graffiti on the wall to your left. Head up to the intersection to make a right. Head straight through the intersection very shortly after the turn, Stop just after the palettes with cardboard boxes on it and before the forklift, both on the right. There should be a yellow awning with yellow colored shutter beneath it, and you'll see a hand.painted on it. Touchdown is sitting on the pinky tip of the hand. Position yourself in which you should be facing incoming cars and there should be a brown and red brick building on your right. Move ahead one step and then make a right turn. Once you made the right turn there will be tons of incoming traffic heading towards you and a red flower garden on your right hand side. Follow the road and eventually you should arrive at an intersection in which you should make a right turn. Your in the right street if you notice one red awning and four black awnings on your left. Follow the road passing the black awning on your right and green scaffolding on your left. Eventually you will arrive at an intersection and should make a right turn. Once you made a right turn you should notice a blue circle sign with a white vehicle. Pass it and look around you. You should notice black pole with blue stripes wrapped around it on your left. The touch down is on top of that pole. Position yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic. A business with a bright blue and yellow sign will be on your right. Turn left at the intersection that is just a short distance ahead. After you turn, there will be an orange and white construction barrier on your left. 

You're going to walk straight on this road for a while. When you see an entrance to a large indoor parking area on your left, you will be halfway to the next intersection. When you get to the intersection, go straight through and stop immediately. There's a black and gray fire hydrant on the corner on your right. Touchdown is sitting on top of this hydrant.  Orient yourself in the direction of the major intersection and crostraight straight through it. Go all the way to the end of the road and take a right. There should be green themed buildings to the right. At the next intersection take a right. There should be a dumpster ahead and some barriers to the right. On the barriers there is a makeshift walkway. Go past it. There are two tan doors. Touchdown is sitting in front of the column between them. Rotate to face away from the nearest intersection.

Proceed forward to the next intersection.
Turn left at the intersection

Proceed to the next intersection
Turn left at the intersection

Proceed forward toward the next intersection, but do not enter the intersection. 
You should be standing on the edge of a large white painted cross walk, just before entering the intersection.

Rotate to your left to see three planters, two square and one round planter.
The bear is sitting on the ground in between the square and round planters. Face the direction of traffic and go to the light. Take a left and there should be a store with a yellow awning and red letters to your right. Go straight. At the intersection take a left. There will be a store with chinese lanterns hanging outside to your right. Go to the intersection, take a left. There should now be a coffee shop on your right. Go to the intersection and take another left. There will be a store with an orange awning on your left. Turn left to face the orange awning. You will see a newstand to the left of the orange awning. Touchdown will be on the face of the poster on the newstand. 
 Go in the same direction as traffic.  Move forward to the first intersection.  Turn right.  There will be a park on your left. Turn right at the next intersection.  There will be a fenced in parking lot on your right.  Proceed to the next intersection and turn right again.  There will be a raised highway to your left.  You'll see some orange and white construction barrels on your left after you go a ways down the street and some orange mesh construction fencing.  Stop after you pass the mesh and the two barrels after the mesh.  Look to your right.  There is a parking meter box/post that the gray and has a blue stripe at the top of it.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this meter post.
 Turn and go in same direction as traffic Turn right at intersection. Turn right at the next intersection. On the right are bowling pins. At next intersection turn right and stop. Turn at look at the store to the right on the corner that has a Christmas tree on the window that is frosted white. Touchdown is on top of  the tallest one.  Move against the flow of traffic.  You should see a bunch of colorful buses parked to your left.  Pass through the first intersection, still moving into oncoming traffic.  You'll see a row of reflective pylons with yellow stripes on your right.  At the second intersection turn right (there is no road on your right at this point, there is just a break in the median).  After the turn you'll see a couple of posts ahead of you.  The one on right has a grey electrical box attached to it.  The one on the left has a small red sign.  Touchdown is on that red sign. Turn yourself so facing the flow of traffic. 
Go straight, passing a red awning on your left and then some tall scaffolding then passing a bunch of bikes park on the left side of the road. 
After the bikes, you will come to an intersection. Go into the intersection and turn right. Turn yourself so you are facing the flow of traffic again. 
Go straight for just a bit and come to an intersection. Go into the intersection and turn right. Again orient yourself so you are facing the flow of traffic. 
Go straight, passing under several flags on both sides of the road. 
Continue going straight, passing more flags and then seeing a parking garage on the left. 
Across the street from the parking garage, you should see a scaffolding with a blue top. There is a ladder propped up against it. In front of the ladder are 2 orange cones sitting in the street. Touchdown is sitting on top of the first orange cone.  Position yourself where there is two black awning to your left and a tall glass building in front of you. Head toward the glass building in which you should reach a traffic light. Make a right turn and follow the road passing the buildings with staircases on your right. Eventually you will come across a traffic light and need to make a right turn. Once you make a right turn you should be in a position where there is a food stand on your right and next to it all you could see is a bicycle seat and it's rear tires that is leaning against a green pole sign. The touchdown is sitting on the bicycle seat. You're going to go ahead and follow the flow of the traffic you're in. You should see a police cruiser to the right. Go forward. You're going to pass multiple signs and buildings that have cars by them fenced in. As you get further up, you will see an empty basketball court. Go until the blue car is just slightly heard of you and the white one is just slightly behind it and to the left. The touchdown is the light on the pole just in front of you.  Turn until the public parking garage is on your left and start going straight. At the end of the street take a right. Go straight and take a right again on the first street on your right. Go a little past the first scaffolding and continue to the middle of the second set of scaffolding on the right with the red light. The bear is on the red light. Turn so the playground is on your right. Go straight passing directly through two intersections. At the next light take a left. There will be a blue sign on the store to your right with a red square. Go straight down this street. At the light take a left. There will be a mailbox on the left side of the street. Go down the street and look for the brick building with squiggly orange bars on some of the doors and windows. Touchdown is sitting at the middle point of the light on the right side of the entrance to this building.  Turn so the construction is on your left and proceed forward a short distance. Turn left as soon as you are able and follow the curved road around.  Watch the angled parked cars on the left.  You'll see a park on the left after the parking area ends.  Stop right before you get to the park structures.  Touchdown is sitting on the two small black balls at the bottom of the point on top of the pointed wooden roof in the middle with a blue square under it. He's just on top of the wooden part. Position yourself so you're moving with the flow of traffic. A business with a large red awning will be on your left. Turn left at the first intersection. After you turn, you'll see shelves of fruit for sale on your left. Just before you get to the next intersection, stop and look to your right. There is a yellow newspaper stand next to a light pole on the corner. Touchdown is sitting on top of the yellow stand.  Orient yourself so that the scaffolding is to your right. Go straight toward the glass building and make a right at the second light. There should be a green awning on your left and a red one at the corner on your right. Go down that street and pass two traffic lights. Stop when you reach the red store sign on your left with the blue letters. Touchdown is on the logo after the letters above the entryway. With the k-walls to your right and black awnings to your left, go to the light. Go left.  There'll be scaffolding to your right. Go through the next light, and at the one thereafter, just cross the crosswalk on your side into the intersection, so you're even with the small cement island in the crosswalk to the left.

There are two visible flags on the building on the right-hand corner. Touchdown is atop the one more in front of the round arena behind it. Orient yourself so that you are moving with traffic. Pass between the two yellow diamond signs with black arrows. Continue straight through the first intersection. At the second, turn left. Now pass a row of orange and white traffic barriers on your right. Then when you reach an intersection, turn left again. 

Now you are on a narrow road between construction/scaffolding. Move ahead to the next intersection, and move straight and stop. Just past the intersection, on your left is a red post. Touchdown is on top of the post. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, with the scaffolding on your left. Head up the street and make a right at the first intersection. you'll head through one intersection, and when you get close to the next, You should see an ambulance before it. Stop in front of the ambulance, and the store behind it has two, two letter symbols on the top. Touchdown is in the symbol above the entrance. To verify you're in the correct position there should be brick buildings on both your left and you're right. The one on your right should have visible green doors and a green awning above one of the doors. You will be heading the same direction as traffic.
Please head straight on the street.
When you reach the first intersection you will turn left you're pretty much making a U-turn heading back to direction you came from on the other side of the street.
Please continue straight for some distance. When you get to the first intersection please stop and look to your right you will see a building with a blue awning beside a building with an orange awning. You will also see a yellow sign with the image of two people walking. Touchdown is directly in front of the sign. Turn so that the water is behind you and the brick building is to your right. There should be a sign with two black figures in front of you. Walk forward all the way to the end of the street. Once you reach the end of the street turn right. There should be a bridge in front of you in the distance. Walk towards the bridge and stop just before you are about to go under it. Face right. You should see two small yellow diamonds on a sign post in front of you to the left. Touchdown is on the lower diamond. Turn so you've got the construction scaffolding on your right, with the yellow sign with black figures on the right as well. Walk down to the intersection.

Turn right. You'll have green lawn on your left and a fenced in parking lot on your right. Walk down the long block. You'll pass a light but not an intersection - keep going.

When you get to the intersection, walk into the middle and look across. There is a fire hydrant on the right curb across the street from the construction. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant.



 Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  Go forward and turn left as soon as you can in the intersection.

You'll see a yellow flag on the left and a national flag on the right (and left further down).

Go through the first intersection and turn left at the second intersection where there is scaffolding.

Go past the row of bikes on the right and stop at the blue flag just past the national flag.  Touchdown is on the logo on the blue flag. Turn yourself so that traffic is against you to your left, and the direction of traffic is on your right. You should see a traffic light on your right when you're oriented correctly. Walk straight through this intersection. 

Keep walking straight until you get to the next intersection. You should see two smaller school buses to your right, and one longer one to your left right before the intersection. Turn right at this intersection.

Continue straight until you reach the next intersection. A gray fence should be to your left. Turn right at this intersection.

Walk a few paces after you turn right. On your left side, you should come to a pole with a red sign at the top. Touchdown is at the bottom of this pole.
 Go the correct direction for the one-way street to the end of the block and go right, and then go right again at the next junction.

You should see to your right a very elegant looking building with large granite blocks with smaller grey bricks and many windows and on your left a building with tan colored bricks and railing in front of it. Additionally, there are many trees on the left.  Go forward until you're just before the first arch with very bright red paint and four doors and an opening in fencing ahead to your left.

Turn to your right, and you should be facing three windows with metal grilling over them, which are to the right of the four red doors.  On the sidewalk is a grey relief pipe.  Touchdown is sitting on the sidewalk, underneath the pipe end facing downwards towards the sidewalk.
 Look for the "Left Lane must turn left sign" and go in that direction. 
Turn left at the first intersection.
Turn left again at the next intersection. There will be a man in a blue shirt standing at the corner. 
Keep straight 
On the left there is a man, wearing a black polo and gray pants, sweeping the street with a blue broom. (stop when you are directly next to the man.) 
Touchdown is at the top of his broom.
 Align yourself with the flow of traffic and head up the intersection closest to you. Make a right, and make a right at the intersection ahead.

As you turn, you should see a bunch of trash on the median as you first head down this street. At the first intersection, make another right, and head almost to the next intersection.

Before the next intersection, you should see a red awning store on your right with an empty store with paper taped in the windows. Touchdown is on the right door handle of this store. Get turned so you are going the same direction as the cars. When you get to that first intersection keep going straight through it. When you get to the second intersection make a right turn. When you get turned there is a corner building that has paper covering the windows. Go straight almost all the way down this long block.  You will pass some arched doorways on the left as you go. Keep going. You will pass some doorways and windows that have the trim painted green on the left keep going straight. You will pass a whole wall of green doors, windows and the wall on the left. Shortly after that there are 3 large green garage type doors on the left. Stop just past them. Across the street on the right side you will see a brown door on a building that has corrugated steel going across above and below the window. Touchdown is on the ground right in the middle in front of the brown door. Go in the direction that places the red buses to your left, Go straight through the next TWO three way intersections. When you come to the next four way intersection, make a left and you will have temporary green construction barriers on either side of you. The next intersection you come to will be a four way with the road to the left being closed. You will stop just before you enter the intersection, in the crosswalk. Turn to your left and you will see the base of the traffic light with a black and silver fire hydrant near the base of it. Touchdown is at the top of this fire hydrant. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  You'll have scaffolding on both sides of the street.
Turn left at the next intersection.
You should see scaffolding on your left.
Turn left at the next intersection.  You should see a green food stand on your right.
Go forward through the intersection until you have the option to go right.  Do so and turn around.
Go to the intersection proper and turn right and move so you're in between the two medians.  You'll see orange barriers on the left ahead.
Look left and you'll see a bike with a basket leaning on a pole.  At the top of that pole is a red and white sign.
Touchdown is on that red and white sign. Turn so the green construction is on your left and the blue building on your right.  Travel a short way and turn right, follow the direction of traffic, passing through the intersection and continue past the green construction which is on your right.  Pass through the next intersection and stop before you reach the crosswalk and the road that open to the right.  In the corner on the right where the three crosswalks meet there is a cement block with a light post on it.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the middle of the concrete block in front of the base of the light post. Align yourself so the fencing is on your left, and the red building on your right. Head up to the intersection to make a right, then another right shortly after. There should be a shuttered door with a colorful mural/graffiti on it on your left after you make the second turn.

Head straight through the first intersection, and just before the second there should be an olive post box with graffiti on it on your left. Touchdown is on top of the post box. Orient yourself toward the intersection and go straight through it. Continue straight through two more intersections and turn left at the third. There is an empty building with red signs on the right and a vitamin store on the left. Travel a little bit down the block until you pass a row of six trash cans on the left and then a set of brown double doors. Touchdown is on the door handle.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and turn left at the intersection.  You should see yellow awnings ahead on your right.  moving forward, you will see scaffolding on your right.
When you finally get to the intersection, turn left.  Before you leave the crosswalk after turning, you will find Touchdown in the black trash can on the left.

 From your starting point, please turn around so that the intersection is behind you.  You should be facing the opposite direction as the cars on your street, so that you see the headlights of the parked cars.  Walk up this street.  When you see some yellow flowers in large planters on your right, just keep going straight and ignore the side street.  

Continue walking straight, against traffic, until you come to a four-way intersection.  

Stop in the middle of the intersection and turn to your left.  You should again be facing against traffic, so that you see the headlights of cars in front of you.  On your right should be some leafless trees covered in tiny yellow lights, and some sculptures that look like enormous dark-red Christmas tree ornaments.  

Walk a very short distance onto this street, and stop when you are standing right next to a bus stop on the left, in front of a store front with a blue and white sign above its window.  There will be an orange cone on the road surface to your left, and slightly behind you.  

If you are in this spot, you can now find Touchdown.  Turn back to face into oncoming traffic (with the lighted trees on your right) and if you look up, on the left-hand sidewalk there is a red and white banner hanging from a lamppost.  Touchdown is sitting on the top edge of this banner. Go down the road where the red sign band with white letters and the yellow sign band with red and green glyphs is to your left, and what appears to be an entire glass building, is to your right.

Go right when you reach the light. Follow the curve to the next light and enter the intersection.  Go forward until you're standing exactly between the two concrete islands.  Straight ahead of you will be an olive colored mailbox with a small blue mailbox to the left of it.

Touchdown is centered atop the blue mailbox. Face the direction that puts the intersection that is closest, in front of you. Go straight through the intersection, you'll be on a two-lane road after crossing the intersection. At the first intersection, you come to turn right. Go to and enter the next intersection. There will be a building on the left diagonal corner with tables and chairs lined around the building.  On the crosswalk there is a little median near the building with the tables and chairs.  There are two white poles on the median, the Touchdown is on the pole nearest the sidewalk. Go in the direction that puts the light colored building on your left and the grass area to your right. Go all the way down to the next intersection and make a right. You will now have a red brick building with grass in front of it to your right and a square light colored building on your left. At the next intersection you will make a right and stop just past the crosswalk. On your right will be some foliage in front of a red brick building and to your left will be some trees. Look slightly ahead to the right and you will see a fire hydrant, Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant.  Start by facing the way traffic is going. Turn right at the first intersection. Go until you see a road on your right side, turn right and continue until you reach the next intersection. Turn right, there will be a median with some trees and bushes on your left side. Go straight past one intersection on the second intersection turn right. Facing the direction of the traffic there is a small stand with advertisement space along the right side of the road. A black trashcan is near it/ The touchdown is at the base of the small side of the stand. Hello. Please orient yourself in the same direction as the parked vehicles. There will be a red brick build with white stone accents. It has red doors. To your right will be a brown building with arched doorways.

Walk forward until you reach a four-way intersection. Turn right.

Go straight until the next four-way intersection with orange and white cones to the right. Continue straight across the intersection. 

Walk forward. You will approach another four-way intersection with a black and gray building to the right side. Turn left here.

On your left, there will be a black building with red letters on the sign above. Keep your eyes on the left side as you move forward. You will pass a blue awning as well as scaffolding with green awning. 

Shortly ahead, there will be a black and red motorcycle parked in between a gray and white vehicle.

Touchdown will be on the headlight area of the motorcycle. Good luck!
 Put the short orange fencing to your right and move into the intersection; turn left. Move with traffic. You will  pass straight through two 3-way intersections. Then on your right is a big red brick building with gray sections of wall. At the end of that building, at the corner is a trashcan (to your right). Touchdown is on top of the trashcan. Orient yourself to go against the flow of traffic and go forward (there should be bikes on your right). Take a right at the first intersection and then go straight. Then stop before the next intersection. The touchdown is across the street and to the right on the superman symbol.  Align yourself with the intersection in front of you, and head straight through it. At the next intersection, make a right. Stop right before the next intersection. If you look above you, you should see two white signs with hearts on them. Touchdown is in the middle of the heart closest to the intersection. Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're pointed in the same direction as the parked cars on either side of you. There should be scaffolding on your right and a black awning on your left and a little further up.

2. Follow this road for a while, and take a right when you reach an intersection. Up ahead and to your right, there should be a red awning covered in writing and a tall brick building should be just beyond it on the same block.

3. Take a right at the next intersection. The tall brick building should still be on your right and some scaffolding with a green top should be further down the street on the same side.

4. Follow the scaffolding to its end. When you're even with the last bit of it, stop. If you look to the left of that, you should see a dark fire hydrant near a small tree. Touchdown is sitting on top of the hydrant.

Good luck! :) Stand so that you are facing out of the intersection onto the smaller road, and will be moving with the flow of traffic. Move forward, passing the red awning on your right and the striped awning on your left. Continue along this street until you reach the next intersection. You will pass a small orange awning on your right, and then a small construction area with orange fences around two trees, and then a small section of scaffolding just before the intersection.

At the intersection, move straight into it and stop. Just before leaving the intersection, on your left corner is a green trashcan. Touchdown is on top of the trash can. Turn so you are facing the way the traffic is going in your lane. There is a median splitting direction on your left side. There will be a grey building on your right side with large arched windows. Go thru three intersections, you will pass by a tan building with black framed doors and windows on your right. Continue straight to the next intersection and turn left. Do not completely exit the intersection and turn left again, so you are going down the other side split of the road you just traveled on. There is a green pool with a set of white square signs, There is a black fire hydrant with a silver top. The Touchdown is on top of the silver topper.  Go in the direction that places the large red city buses to your left and the police cars to your right. Make a left at the three way intersection very close to you. There will now be the large red city buses to your right. Go straight through the next two three way intersections, there are no traffic lights at these two intersections. Pass a large red box truck parked on the right, and stop in the middle of the next intersection. There will be a gas station with green trim ahead to the left. On the corner with the gas station there are two poles and metal mesh trash can next to one of the poles. Touchdown is in the middle of the trash can opening, where you would place your trash. With the bridge behind you, head straight down this narrow street. When you get to the stoplight, turn right. There will be blue scaffolding on your right.  Go straight.  Ignore the first stoplight and continue straight.   The next stop light won't have any streets to turn onto, just a pedestrian crosswalk. There's a church to your right.  On the left side of the church building there is a white sign on it next to a window.  Touchdown is in the center of that sign.  Face in the direction of traffic. Turn right at the intersection just ahead.

The store with a red sign and white letters is on your right. Walk down to the next corner and turn right.

There is a shop with an open display of merchandise on your right. Walk down to the end of the block.

Before you get to the intersection, stop and look to your left. There is a shop behind all the scaffolding that has a heart shape in the sign. Touchdown is on the heart shape that is facing the street you are traveling on.

 Turn to go with traffic, to the intersection.  Go left. Continue down the block until you get to the scaffolding on your right, where you see a bright neon yellow triangular sign.  Go one step past it, and turn to your right, so that you're looking at the tree immediately behind that sign, that has a small black fence around its base.

Touchdown is sitting at the base of the tree, inside the fence, dead center, facing towards the street. Stand so that you are moving with the flow of traffic. Go straight to the next intersection and turn right. Continue to the next intersection, and turn right again. At the tunnel entrance are two white signs with red letters and a red arrow. Touchdown is on the arrow on the sign on the right. Begin traveling with the flow of traffic, so the scaffolding will be on your right. At the first intersection, turn right. After you turn, there will be a brick building with several black awnings on your right. Turn right again at the next intersection. Now, you'll see a large green canopy over glass double doors of a building. Take this to the next intersection and turn right again. Make sure you go down the first road and not the one-way road right after it.  Orange construction cones will be on both sides of you. 

At the next side road with no traffic lights turn right. There is a green mail box immediately on your left. Touchdown is on top of the mailbox.  Orient yourself so the mural of a flying tie man is to the right. Take a right. Take a right again after the red door. Go straight past a yard of parked cars to the right. There is a dark green door to the right. Touchdown is in front of it. Face the same direction as the cars, with the blue awning on your right, move forward, make a right at the intersection and another right at the next intersection, with the black store front now on your left. Go forward an stop when you reach a red awning and than a black one, on your left. Touchdown is on the top step, in front of the white door, of the black store front, with the black awning. Turn so you are looking in the same direction as traffic on your side of the road. There should be an offramp in front of you. Follow the ramp down. At one point it will fork - stick to the right.

As you come off the ramp, you'll see an intersection ahead. Go all the way to the intersection until you can't go forward anymore. On the construction scaffolding ahead of you and to the right, there is a white banner with a green logo on it. Touchdown is on the logo. Turn away from the intersection, putting the two purple awnings on your left. Walk ahead. Go straight at the 3 way intersection. Then go right at the 4 way intersection. Coming upon one more intersection, you should see a purple flag hanging on the left corner ahead of you. Go right.  There is a brown building on your right, followed by a red one. Go to the far end of the red one and turn to face it. Touchdown is in the middle of the white sign with blue letters hanging from the green construction overhang in front of you. Turn around with the apartment buildings on your right, and the traffic and fenced in area on your left. Head down to the first turn and make a right. You should see a building with lettering underneath the windows on your left. Touchdown is on the letter under the 2nd window. Turn to go with traffic, there will be a bright red wall to your right, continue to the intersection and make a right, there will be a restaurant to your left painted yellow and has red neon lettering. Go to the next intersection and take a right, you will be on a one way street, and to your right are small white buildings with green roofs for shopping, continue down this street to the next intersection, as you enter this intersection, there will be a hot dog vender, next to the vender is a light pole with a yellow box with a lit ip hand, the bear is on the hand Align yourself with the skateboarding man and mopeds on the left. You'll have to go back right once and forward after that. Make a right at the intersection ahead. Head up to the next intersection, and make a left. There should now be a produce section on your right. Follow this road down a couple steps past the hot dog stand. There should be a lady looking at her phone with a trash can next to her, Touchdown is on the trash can. Face the direction so the intersection is directly in front. Turn left at this intersection once turned into the street, there is a fruit stand on the right and a plant store on the left side.  Take a leff at the next possible turn. There will be a low red brick wall with black fencing on the right side of the street. At the end of the street will be a bright green building in front, take a left turn at this road. At the next intersection, there will be a yellow box near a tall pole on the right corner, take a left t this intersection. The right side will have green scaffolding on the right sidewalk. Pass the end of the green scaffolding on the left side of the street there is a blue bike that is locked to a green pole. The touchdown is on the seat of the blue bike.  You're on a divided road - orient yourself in the direction of traffic on your side.  There should be a bridge above you and one in the distance.

Go forward. You'll pass a green traffic sign with a yellow strip on the bottom and a blue strip on top. Keep going. You'll next pass a yellow diamond sign on top of two other small signs. Go farther to the next set of signs. 

This next set of signs include two large green ones in addition to a long thin yellow one and other signs. 

Touchdown is on the rightmost arrow on the yellow part of the wayfinding sign. Face the oncoming traffic coming from the one way street and move into the intersection.  Turn to your right and travel up the road with yellow stripes across the center.  At the first intersection you come to, turn right.  Go up this two way street past a park/playground on your right until you reach a Y in the road.  Take the right hand side, the one that goes straight rather than turning, then continue to merge onto the main road.  Just before the next major intersection, there should be a long thin navy blue awning with white letters on it on your right.  Next to the awning on the building is a white square that has a pinkish/purple center.  The center of that square where the pink/purple color is is where touchdown is. Align yourself with the row of blue bikes on your left, and the scaffolding on your right. Head to the intersection and make a right. There should now be scaffolding on your left.

Ignore the first intersection, then when the camera changes abruptly, make a right. There should again be scaffolding on your left. Head down this street to the intersection, ignoring the left turn. 

Right before the intersection, you should see an olive green post box next to a blue one, to your left at the nearest corner. Touchdown is sitting on top of the olive box. Turn around to face with traffic, then go forward to the intersection and take a left. The intersection is very very close, possibly closer than you'd think. Follow this road until you reach for three blocks, there will be an intersection that with a weird slight turn on the way there, but just go through it.  You will reach an intersection with a smoothie bar and an empty lot on the other side of it.Take a left here, and go forward until you pass a building with strung up lights on your left, and then a building with a bunch of symbols where windows would be. Touchdown is on the third symbol group, on the sun symbol. GO WITH traffic immediately RIGHT. There will be a blue awning on your left and red 3D letters on a grey sign band on the right corner building. GO RIGHT at the light and almost all the way to the end of the block.

STOP before the last red awning of the building on the right corner, when you're directly in front of the middle window, that you won't be able to see.  LOOK ahead and right of you: there is a white capped hydrant and a red call box further, almost at the curb.

FIND Touchdown atop the red call box.

 Hello. Please orient yourself facing the same direction as the parked vehicles. There will be scaffolding with green awning to your left.

Walk forward to the four-way intersection ahead. Cross straight through it. 

As you approach the next intersection, it will zoom you far ahead. You will be facing a red brick building with large windows. There will be some stairs with black railing as well. Turn right.

You will see scaffolding with green awning to your left. There will be a tall white building with lots of columns to your right.

Ignore the three-way turn when you encounter it. Continue walking forward until you reach the four-way intersection. Turn right. 

To your left, you will see white and black umbrellas. Walk forward to the next four-way intersection. Turn left and stop immediately. 

Look ahead on the right side. There will be a red and white sign with letters on a dark pole next to a red brick building with large windows. Touchdown will be in the middle of the red and white sign. Good luck! Align yourself so the two dirty red awnings are on your right. 

You're going to head straight through four intersections. After the fourth there will be a right turn, stop at the turn. On your left  you should see a rainbow colored umbrella, touchdown is on the blue flap of the umbrella. Turn so the red construction is on your left.  Follow traffic to the first intersection and turn left.  The store with the big red heart in the sign should be on your right now.  Follow this road a short distance to the intersection and turn left.  The building with red and white striped window coverings is on your left now.  Enter this street and look to your left at the red and white stripped windows.  Touchdown is sitting in the middle square of the window under the first red and white stripped rounded window covering, above the sign on the corner.  The curved red arrow is pointing at the window. With the overpass to your right, go straight. When you get to the end of this parking lot, turn left.  Then an immediate right turn. You'll be going against the flow of traffic and will have scaffolding to your left. Go straight and turn left when you get to the next intersection. There will be a playground to your left, go straight through this light. At the next light, turn right and stop to look at the point above the door to your left.  (the door that's on the side of the building) Touchdown is sitting on top of that point. You want to head down a sign lane, one-way road, in the direction of traffic. Position yourself so you can see a hot dog stand with red and yellow umbrellas on the left of the road ahead. 

Walk down to the end of this block and turn right. You'll have a store with a red sign and white lettering on your right.

Walk down past the construction scaffolding on the right. At the corner, you'll turn right again.

You'll now be headed down another one-way road. There is scaffolding on both sides. Walk most of the way down this block. YOu'll pass a part where there is no scaffolding on the right. There will be another stretch of scaffolding after the break. After THAT bit, look to the right up ahead. There's a rectangular white sign with only black letters on it/ Touchdown is on that sign.


 Go with traffic flow to the corner and turn right. When you turn there will be rental bikes to your left and you will be facing traffic.

Go all the way down to the next corner and turn right again. 

Go down this road to the next intersection. There will be a large gray building up on the right with greenish glass and angled cement pillars.

In front of that building is a pole with a street light and green box and Touchdown will be on top of the green box.

 With the flow of traffic, go straight through the light and turn right at the next one. Turn right again at the one after that, and right a final time at the next one.

Stop when the white entry canopy, white awnings, two white tents and outdoor tables are to your right.  Rotate left.  Touchdown is atop the thin square grey parking meter with the blue band around the top. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, and make a left, then make a right at the intersection. At the next intersection, make another right. You should see on your left, a fenced in median between the streets. Stop at the first bike on your left, learning against the bike. Touchdown is in the basket above the back wheel of the first bike. Turn so you are facing the same direction as the parked cars. Go straight. Go through a stop sign. Continue straight until you reach an intersection where you can no longer go straight. Turn right. Go straight, passing poles in the street on the left side. When you reach the first intersection, turn right. Go straight, passing a building on the left with a yellow bottom. Go to the stop sign. When you are at the stop sign, look across the street to the corner on the left side of the road. On this corner is a black fire hydrant. Touchdown is sitting on top of this hydrant.  Turn and go in the direction with the traffic. Green boards on the right. Go straight thru 3 traffic lights. Turn right the next chance you get. Trees will be on the left.  You'll see  some scaffolding on the left. Before you get to the intersection there will be a large orange animal painted on building. Touchdown is on the animals right ear.   Go into the intersection and turn right.  Then take the next 3 rights.  Navigation is tricky on the 2nd one.  There is a yellow sign with Asian writing on the right.  After you take the last right, you should see two grey trash cans on the right.  Pass them, but look back towards them.    The bear is on the wheel that is facing the street. Turn so the red building is directly to your left and blue arched awnings are up ahead on your right. Go to that corner right in front of you and turn left. 

Now go to the next corner, which is a 3-way, and turn left again. When you turn scaffolding with a green top is on your right. 

Just before you get to the next intersection, which is a 3-way, turn and look to your right to see a hydrant near the corner. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant. Go with the flow of traffic, you'll have an empty business to your right. Up ahead on this block you'll see scaffolding on your left.  Look on the right side of the street for the round silver awnings. Touchdown is sitting at the very top of the second awning. Turn yourself so you are facing in the same direction as the parked cars.  Head down the street and turn right at the first intersection.  Continue down that street and turn right at the first intersection. On your left you will see a blue fire escape.  Touchdown is seated on top of the first bin in the line of gray bins under the fire escape. face the flow of traffic move straight and take a right at your first intersection. Take a right at the next intersection. Go straight and take another right at the next intersection. Move straight. On your left will be a building with flags hanging from it. Touchdown is on the middle corner of the hotel sign above the entrance.  Align yourself with the flow of traffic. Go forward three intersections. At the third intersection, take exactly one left..You should see a green trash can behind a white car and some plants. Touchdown is on top of the trash can. Go with traffic flow and go through that intersection that's shortly in front of you. Turn left at the next one. When you turn there is bright red awning on your right. 

Go forward through the first intersection. Keep going a bit down this block until you see scaffolding on your right. It's after the tan building with a lot of windows. Don't go to the scaffolding. Turn to your left and there is a planter hanging from the pole. Touchdown is on the pole, directly under the plant, holding the planter on his head.
 Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and the green retaining wall on the right.
Turn right at the dead end and there will be scaffolding on both sides of the street and orange/white barriers on your right.
Head forward a short distance to the 3-way intersection and turn right.  There will be a dumpster with a tarp on it at the next intersection, turn right there.
Move forward and you should see a blue sign on a pole up ahead on the right.  Touchdown is on the blue circular sign. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Go straight through the next intersection.
Keep going and stop when you are in front of a grey stone building on the left with a wood door, a black iron mesh door, and black door.  There is a cone beyond the fencing.  Touchdown is on the white sign above the central door. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  The grassy area and black fencing should be on your right.

Go straight for a while, past a playground on your left, you should see an archway/tunnel ahead.  There will be green scaffolding as you get close.

Don't step into the intersection in front of the tunnel, instead turn left.  There's a red post under a black sign on the corner near you.  Touchdown is at the top of that red post. Orient yourself with traffic. Turn right at the light. Pass a playground on your right and go through the first traffic light. Stop between the fifth and fourth to last columns of the building on the left that has windows all along its second and third floors, a few steps before a word in the road. Touchdown sits on top of the nearest black picnic table on the left between the second to last and last pillar. When you begin walking, you'll be moving with the flow of traffic. Blue rental bikes will be on your right. Turn left at the first intersection. A restaurant with outdoor seating will be on your left after you turn. 

At the next intersection, turn left again. You'll now see a white building with a blue door on your right. Move forward until you see a business on your left with a blue sign that has a yellow stripe on top and white lettering. Right after this is a gray door on a gray brick wall. Above the door is a red and white circle. Touchdown is right in the center of that circle.  You need to orient yourself so you see the stoplight sign. Go through the tunnel and take a right. You should see silver garages on your right and a brick building on your left. Go down until you hit the crosswalk and you should see a camera mounted on the building to the right. The center is the touchdown.  Align yourself so the blue garbage bins are on your left. Head straight through the first intersection, and make a right at the next, past the construction blockades. Head to just before the stop sign, and there will be a silver tipped hydrant in front of it. Touchdown is on the tip of the hydrant. Go WITH traffic, STRAIGHT through the 1st light and STOP when you're past the opening in the chain-link fence on your left and directly in front of the open gate of the chain-link fence on your right. ROTATE RIGHT.  There's a large white square sign with red letters to the left of the gate opening.

FIND Touchdown in the center of the white square sign with red text. Head the same direction as traffic. When you get to the intersection take a left. There will be a park on your left side and green covered scaffolding to the right. You will pass a small side street. Keep going straight. When you get to the 4 way intersection turn left again. The park is still on your left and a building with arches is on the right. You will pass another side street keep straight just past that. You will go past the pile of boxes and see some orange traffic cones on the right. Touchdown is on top of the 3rd traffic cone that has 2 white stripes on it. Go with traffic flow and turn left at the corner.
Go to the next corner and turn left.
As you go down this road there will be a large orange construction sign on the left in the shape of a diamond. Touchdown is in the center of that sign. Turn around so that you are facing an orange construction sign and orange cones.  Walk forward, straight through the first intersection you come to, and keep the sculpture with the white and grey triangles on your right.  Walk a little bit further, go past a construction worker in a bright yellow vest, and then stop in the middle of the intersection.  You should see a large white truck with red letters directly in front of you.  From here, turn to your right so that you are facing the side of a small blue car, and you can see a red-and-white striped ambulance down the road in front of you.  Go forward.  This is a tricky intersection, but try to veer to the left so that the sculpture with the triangles stays on your right-hand side.  You may need to go back and try again.  If the sculpture is on your left, you have taken the wrong road.  If you are on the right track, you should soon see two blue-and-white ambulances on your left.  Go past them, and straight through an intersection onto a road where you should pass between a dark red station wagon and a white (or light gray/silver) pickup truck with a camper shell.  Walk a bit further down this road, past the minivan with its rear door open and stop when you are next to the green awning over the doorway on your right.  Turn to your right so you are looking directly into the doorway, and Touchdown will be on top of the light fixture on your left. Turn so you'll be going with the flow of traffic on this one-way street.  At the first intersection you come to, turn right.  At the next intersection you come to, turn right again. As you go along that block, you'll come to a big long dumpster on your left, with brown tarps over the top. The bear is sitting on the thing that looks like a brown cardboard tube on top of the dumpster. Orient yourself so you are facing the intersection following the flow of traffic and move into the middle of the intersection.  Turn to your left.  You should see an older sky blue car parked on the right side of the road and a portapotty to your left.  Travel down this road to the next intersection.  At the next intersection turn left.  There should be a construction area on the left that takes up  more than half of the street.  Travel down this street to the next intersection.  Turn left again so the white brick building is on your left and you are following the flow of traffic.  Go up to the next intersection. Turn left and move onto the side road.  As soon as you're on the side road, stop.  Look to your right.  You'll see a blue awning with white letters on the corner.  To the left of that awning, on the ground, is a white and orange traffic cone.  Touchdown is on top of that cone. Turn so that the clusters of parked bikes on the sidewalk are on your right side, and then go forward.  Go straight through the first intersection you come to, then at the second intersection turn right. At the next intersection you come to, turn right.  Immediately after you make the turn, note that there's a fire hydrant on the right side of the street (on the sidewalk).  The hydrant is gray, and the bear is on top of it. Orient yourself with traffic so the playground is on your right. Continue straight through three intersections and turn left at the fourth. There will be a subway entrance below a diner to your right as you turn the corner. Go forward just one or two paces. Touchdown is on the far most green and orange globe above the subway entrance.  Orient yourself so you're facing the flow of traffic. Take a right at the first intersection. You should be facing a a black bridge with a green traffic sign. Continue forward and take a right at the next intersection. There should be an orange diamond traffic sign on your right. Continue straight past the orange construction barriers on your left. Stop when you see two large construction vehicles on your left. Touchdown is in the center of the left tire of the construction vehicles on the left.  Move with the flow of traffic down this one way street, and turn right at the first intersection. You'll know have colorful blocks on the buildings on your left, and a long red canopy extending over the sidewalk up ahead on your right. 

At the next light, turn right again, and this will place a row of rental bikes on your right. Pass the bikes and pass the green scaffolding on your left. Start looking for a light-colored building on your left with a black wrought iron fence in front of it. A few buildings down from that one is a brown brick one with similar fencing. Just after that fencing is a sign with four white balloons attached. Touchdown is sitting on top of the highest balloon.  Orient yourself so that a building is to your immediate right. Proceed forward through the tunnel. Follow the road as it turns right. Stop at the stop sign for pedestrians, then stop before the next pedestrian crossing. Touchdown sits to the left of a man in red on the bench ahead on the right. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the pile of trash bags ahead to the right in front of you. Continue forward until you reach the next intersection and take a left. You should see green scaffolding to the left side of the road. Continue forward to until you reach the next intersection and take another left. The gun you will see green scaffolding on the left and you should see a row trees on the right. Continue forward going past the trash bags on the right and the entrance to the parking garage on the right. Stop before you have reached the crosswalk of the intersection in front of you. Turn to your left and you will see a red bicycle leaning against a pole. Click the center of the rear wheel of the bicycle to find touchdown. You should be situated so you're on an off ramp from the bridge. Walk down the slope in the direction that traffic would be headed.

When you reach the intersection, you won't be able to go forward. Turn right. There will be construction scaffolding to your left and it will look as though you're traveling on the wrong site of the road.

Walk through what looks like an intersection but is just pedestrian crosswalks. After this, you'll see a park-like space on your left. Across from it is a line of blue rental bikes. 

After the rental bikes on the right is a business with three green signs and white lettering. Touchdown is on the sign that is closest to the bikes but angled away from the road/you.

 Turn so there is a building with a blue awning, and a man painted on the wall below it, just ahead of you on the right. Go left at the first intersection. There should now be outdoor seating at the restaurant on your right. Go left at the next intersection. Almost to the next intersection, stop just before the white and brown storefront on the left. There will be two tan planter boxes in front of the corner store next to it. Touchdown is sitting centered on top of the plants in the one nearest you.  Orient yourself so you are moving against the flow of traffic.
Turn right at the next intersection.
Right before you get to the next intersection stop.  You'll see cones, ahead and to the right.  Across the street on the pole to the left with the street lights, you'll see a green box attached to the bottom part of the pole.  Touchdown is on this green box. Align yourself with the flow of traffic in your lane. A bit in, you'll see a right turn to head off the first exit. Take it.

Take the right most arrow, so that you are on the right side of the blue sign and traffic barrels. Pass the barrels, and turn around. Touchdown will be on the barrel closes to you and the guardrail, the second tallest barrel. Turn so the leafy tree is on your left.  Follow the flow of traffic to the intersection ahead and turn right.  Follow this road to the next intersection and turn right.  There will be a red statue on your left now.  Continue down this road, through the first intersection and stop before you enter the next intersection.   Look to your left and there are two windows with green trim around them.  There is an A frame white sign below the bigger of the two windows.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the point of the sign in the middle. Follow the flow of traffic and turn left at the first intersection. Continue forward and turn left at the next intersection. Stop once you pass the parking garage entrance on your left. The touchdown is on the red and white sign on your left.  Walk so the very colorful geographic building with lemons/limes and palm trees on it is to your left. At the intersection ahead, walk just into the first lane of moving traffic and turn around to face the building on the left corner that you just passed.  See a sign with a man holding a pizza on the corner. Touchdown is sitting right in the middle of that pizza. Face such that the island in the middle of the street with bells and dark green leafed trees is on your left, and the red brick building with a tan sign band with huge dimensional letters is on your right, and go forward until you reach the end of the building (it takes up the whole block!) on your right and there are bells on the island to your left. 

Take the right at this intersection. Go to the end of the block and go right again.

You'll be on a street with subway steps on both sides of the streets flanked by green capped orb lights.  Walk down the street until you see ahead and to your left a chain linked fence with barbwire on it. (If you can look left and see it straight on, you've walked too far!)

There's a small white metal sign on the right gate.  Touchdown is glued to that sign. Face the flow of traffic and you should see a truck blocking 1/2 the view.  Go forward until you hit the intersection where you'll want to turn left.  You should see scaffolding on your right and flags above you on the left.

At the next intersection, turn left again.  You should see a taxi in front of you, some white and yellow dividers in the middle of the street on the left.  Go until you are close to the next intersection.  Stop when you get next to a blue bus stop with a bike next to it.  Touchdown is on the bike seat. Go in the direction that will put the black with silver top fire hydrant on you right, you will be on a one way road going with the flow of traffic. At the stop sign you will make a right. You will have a light color building with vertical lines to your left and on the corner on the right is a silver building with a black doorway. Go straight through the next intersection (there is no traffic light here), at the end of this road you will make another right. There will now be a park on your left and a light color building on you right with decorative pillars. Go straight through the next intersection, you will have a red brick building with a white entryway on your left, stop in front of the white entryway. Turn to the right and you will see a tree with a short black fence around it. Touchdown is at the base of the tree.  Turn so you are facing the green bridge and follow traffic under it.  Just after you pass under the bridge, watch the sidewalk on the right.  There is an area on the sidewalk there it splits off to the park on the right.  There is a single black lamp post on that corner.  Touchdown is on the pointed top of that black lamp post. You know you have the right one if you are lined up and and the symbol in the circle on the rod iron fence is a bird. Turn towards the intersection, with the bright yellow building behind you and to the left.  Go through this intersection.  You will pass some large red doors on the right with a nation flag above one.  Keep going forward and you will pass by two lots with large fences around them.
At the intersection ahead, turn right.  Head forward and stop just before the green fence on the right ends.
Just ahead is a red awning on the right.  In front of that is a hydrant where Touchdown is hiding. eTurn and face the direction that puts a chainlink fence ahead of you on the left side of the street.  Go forward to the intersection, and make a right turn. The street you turn onto, on the right side, the store has a red awning. Make another right turn at the next intersection, a red dumpster is sitting on the right side of the road before making the turn. After going straight down the street you will pass scaffolding with green boards on the right side of the road. Continue past this.  Further down on the right side you will see a green mailbox and another set of scaffolding with a green dumpster sitting on the road in front of the scaffolding. The Touchdown is on the top center of the green mailbox.  Orient yourself so the perpendicularly parked cars are on your left.  Go down to the intersection and turn right.  Begin walking down the street.  As you approach the crosswalk of the next intersection, stop.  Look at the corner on your right.  Next to the street light pole is a trash can and a yellow newspaper box.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the newspaper box. Turn with the flow of cars and walk forward.  Go through the next intersection and continue forward.  Keep going down this road until you can make a left turn.  The road almost goes the other way than you were walking.  There will be a playground on your right.  Move forward.  As you pass the playground you will see a basketball court.  Stop just before the basketball court.  There is a street light (Pole) at this position.  The bear is sitting on the ground in front of it. Turn so that the tree is on your left and there is scaffolding on your right. You should see a purple sign under the scaffolding. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left. There should be a lot of green scaffolding to your left. Walk straight through the next three intersections. Stop before you get to the crosswalk. If you look to your immediate left you should see a bunch of garbage bags. There are three chairs to the right of the bags. Touchdown is under the middle seat. Orient yourself in the direction of the intersection. Take a right at the intersection and another right at the intersection with the strange looking gray building to the right. Go straight until you see a gray corrugated garage door with grafitti on it to the right. Touchdown is in front of the garage door. Hello. Please orient yourself with the flow of traffic. You will be facing a construction are with white and orange barricades as well as orange signs. You will see colorful graffiti to your right side.

Go forward into the intersection. Turn right. There will be scaffolding with a green awning on your left side. You will see a building with very colorful food images on your right side.

Go straight until you reach the next intersection. There will be crates of produce and wares outside a building with a bright red awning on your right side. Turn right again.

Go straight down this path. Keep your eyes on the left side of the path. There is a bright red brick building next to a grey building with lots of windows as you approach the intersection. Please stop just after you pass the red building. 

On the left corner of the intersection up ahead, there is a black mesh trashcan with a white bag inside of it. There is a bicycle next to the trashcan as well as a black and a white trash bag that are full. 

Touchdown is at the top of the trashcan on the white bag part of it. Good luck! Position yourself in which there should be two orange traffic cones in front of you but to the left. Head in that direction towards the traffic light and make a right turn. Follow the road and eventually you should arrive at a traffic light up ahead. Make a right turn at the traffic light. Continue forward until you reach another traffic light and make a right. Slowly move forward and you should be in front of a building that lets people wash their clothes on your right. Outside is a coin dispenser. The touchdown is sitting on top of it. Turn so that the red brick building with green shrubs out front is to your left. Walk ahead. At the upcoming three way intersection, go right. The walls of the building on your left have artistic graffiti. Go right at the next intersection.  There is a colorful blue storefront ahead on your left. Go right at the intersection it is on, the next one you come to. It may be hard to turn, just make sure you are in the middle of the intersection to do it. There are smaller trees lining the left side of the road, and a little bigger ones on the right. After passing by a set of steps on your left, stop at the next silver pole on the left. Touchdown is sitting on the ground, right in front of that pole. His back is leaning on it in the center  Walk against traffic into the closest intersection and make a right.At the next intersection, walk just into the crosswalk and stop. Turn to your right, there is a bright yellow and a red newspaper stand here. Touchdown is on top of the yellow one. Facing so that the parking lot is on your left, go past all the sad horses and carriages. Make a left at the corner so the big yellow building is on the left and a brick wall on your right. At the next intersection. there is a yellow wall across the street on the right. In front of the wall is a fire hydrant. Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant.  Follow the flow of traffic to the intersection.  Continue straight through.  At the next intersection (Lots of construction) turn right.  The construction will now be on your left.  Continue straight to the intersection.  Turn right.  Pass the red truck on your right and continue forward to the intersection.  While standing directly in the middle of the intersection look for 2 black trash bags on the ground near a trash can.  The bear is sitting on top of the right one. Position yourself so you are following the traffic and there is a red car parked to your right. Go straight now, do not turn when you see a Y shaped intersection. Continue going straight. After a school sign on the right there is a 3-way intersection. Some stores with green awning is on the left side of the road. Turn right at this intersection. Now you should face a bridge ahead of you. Go straight until you reach intersection right before the bridge, do not go across it. There should be a brick building with a red door on your right side . Now turn right so you are on the right side of the bridge with cars parked on both sides. Now go straight. When you just pass the black van to your left. Stop, now look to your left side, there should be a blue van parked on the left side of the road and next to it is a black car. Then there is a huge cement block on the road. The touchdown is on the block.  Turn so you are facing the building on the water that has flags and a white city skyline above the green building.  Walk towards the building.  When you are even with the building, stay to the left at the Y in the road.  Walk forward, crossing over white pedestrian crossing lines on the road.  As soon as you cross over the second white pedestrian crossing lines, stop.  Turn to your right, almost so you're facing the building on the water again.  There are bushes in white round planters on either side of the crosswalk you just stepped over.  Touchdown is on top of the bush that is closest to you. You are on a one way road, go with the flow of traffic. You will immediately come to a three way intersection, make a left. Pass by the community bike stand to you right. At the next intersection, you will make another left. You will be going with the flow of traffic on a street congested with parked cars on both sides. At the next intersection, you will make another left. You are now on a two way road. At the next intersection, make yet another left. You will immediately come to another intersection. Go straight through it and stop on the crosswalk on the opposite side of the intersection. You will have a bright yellow and black traffic sign to your right and a red and white traffic sign to your left. Turn to the right and you will see a metal circle on the sidewalk at the corner of the street. Touchdown is in the center of this circle.  Orient yourself so that there are two dumpsters on your right. Go in the direction of traffic. Continue down past the construction scaffolding on your right. You will pass more construction trucks on your right. Keep going. When you come to the intersection, turn left. You should see orange and white barriers on your left side. Go down this road until you come to the next intersection. Take another left. On your right side you will see a poster in a window of a man and a woman wearing sunglasses. Touchdown is on the man's nose. Turn so the tunnel is behind you.  Follow the flow of traffic up to street level an down the cones.  When the cones end, before you go under the bridge ahead, turn to your right and then go against traffic and curve around the wall.  You know you are in the right place hwen you have a green construction wall on your right and a chain link fence on your left.  Travel ahead, passing under the red metal sign posts hanging over the road and stop next to the tall rectangular sign on the left.  There is a diamond shaped sign ahead.  Touchdown is sitting on the top point of that sign. Hello. Please orient yourself with the orange-red building to your right side. You will be facing the flow of traffic. To your left side will be an orange mesh fence with lots of trees. 

Walk forward to the first intersection. Turn left here.

You will now see a green metal gate to your far left. There will be a white building with rows of dark windows spanning all the way up.

Continue straight through the first 4-way intersection. You will pass by a red truck with giant cookies on it on your right side. Keep going straight a little further with your eyes on the right side of the road. Slow down when you reach a tall silver pole next to a brick building with a blue painted section that has colorful flowers and butterflies. The silver pole has a red and white sign with red markings and arrows on it.

You want to be just barely past this sign on your right side. Touchdown will be in the middle of the white and red sign on the silver pole to your right side. Good luck! Follow traffic, with the black fenced in park to your right, to the light.  Go through, but stop just before the crosswalk on the other side, and go one movement left.

Ahead and slightly left should be the median with four white tipped bell-shaped bollards and further up, orange and white construction barrels corralled in a concrete pen. Rotate slightly right.  Touchdown is atop the red newspaper kiosk on the right-handed corner. Turn until you're going against traffic. Go straight and you'll hit an intersection. Go straight to the street across from you on the intersection and stop. To the right should be a parked police car. The bear is on the back right tire of the police car. Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. A gray stone building with a red fire escape should be to your left in the distance.

2. Take a right at the first intersection that you meet. A green fence surrounding an area covered in graffiti should be to your right.

3. When the road splits, veer left. A barrier should be on your right. When you reach the intersection, go backwards and to the left so that you're on the opposite side of the barrier now.

4. Go straight, following the curve to the right. The road will curve to the right again and merge with another lane. Keep following this road. You're getting close to your destination.

5. When you pass beneath an overpass, follow the dividing barrier on the left that ends with a couple of yellow barrels (a series of traffic cones starts after that, but don't worry about them).

6. Get close to the yellow barrels, but don't pass them up. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the black lid on the barrel that's closer to you.

Good luck! :) With the bridge to your left, go to the stop signs and left, under the bridge. At the next stop signs, go left, with scaffolding to your right. At the next intersection, go left, under the bridge.  Stop when you're even with the end of the chain-link fence to your left.  Far ahead and to your right is a bright neon yellow triangle street sign with the black silhouettes of two people. Touchdown sits atop its pointed peak. Position yourself  so the green wall and orange and white construction barrier is on your left. Move with the flow of traffic to the first intersection and turn right. Now, you'll see two flags extending from a brick building up ahead on your right.

When you get to the traffic light turn right.  Go straight, past bicycles on your left, and make another right turn at the next intersection. After you turn a large white building with several red signs will be on your right.

When you get to the next intersection, go straight through and stop immediately. There's a bus stop on your left on the corner. Touchdown is sitting right in the center of the bench. Go in the direction that puts the light colored building to your right and the green construction walkway to your left. Go straight to the next intersection and go to the left and make a u turn to the other side of the street, going back the direction you came yet on the opposite side of the street. You should now have the median to your left and a green store front to your right. Go forward a short ways until you are even with the start of the green construction walkway on your right. Turn to your right and you will see a bright red store front with a fire hydrant in front of it. Touchdown is on the top of the fire hydrant.  Face the flow of traffic and move to the next intersection. Turn right to continue moving with the flow of traffic. A divided section of trees is in the middle of the road with cars parked to your right. Continue straight through the first intersection and turn right at the second intersection. You'll see graffiti on the right side to the left of a restaurant with a yellow and white sign. At the next intersection, look to the right. There will be a trash can between a yellow taxi and a street sign pole with a green box mounted to it. Touchdown is on top of the trash can. you are at an intersection, turn so that the most amount of people crossing is on your right and go to the next intersection
take a right and go straight down to the next intersection
once you are in the very middle of this intersection stop 
to your left is a red fire hydrant with 2 yellow ports 
touchdown is sitting on top of this hydrant Go with traffic flow to the corner and turn right. 

Go down this longer block to the next corner and turn right. 

When you turn, you are still going with traffic flow. Go to the next intersection and go through it. As you pass through there is a glass building to your right. You can see a hydrant on the right side of the street that's black with a silver top. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant. Get turned so all the bikes are on the right side of you. Go to the intersection and make a left.  Once you get turned there is a wooden green fence to the right. Go straight to the end of this long block.  You will cross over a crosswalk about halfway down the block as you go. When you reach the intersection make a left. Go just a short distance then stop. If you look to your right there is yellow on the corner building and green overhang. There is a red fire hydrant just past that. Touchdown is on that hydrant.  Turn so the long red awning is on your right. There's a green fire escape above it on the left side of the red awning. Go down this road and turn right at the first intersection.

As you turn, there's a brick building on the right then a short brick wall that matches the building with a green fence on top of it. Touchdown is sitting on the end of the wall, at the bottom of the fence but on top of the wall. 
 Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
You should see scaffolding ahead on the left.
Turn right at the next intersection.  You'll be next to a large red sign with white lettering.
Turn right at the next intersection.  You should see a red building with a red awning on your right.
 Stop when you're at the back of the orange vehicle on the right.

Turn to the other side of the street.  You could see a dark post with a blue band around the top.  Touchdown is on that blue band. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Follow this around the curve to the right.
The road should eventually let you onto an offramp/side street on the right.  If it doesn't, go back and try again.
You should pass an extremely bright orange diamond sign on the right.  Just past that is a yellow pole next to some stairs.
Touchdown is at the base of this yellow pole. If you're in the correct position to your left is a white brick building with black bars over the windows in a red awning that travels the length of the sidewalk to the street. To your right is a black iron fence with lots of trees behind. Once you are in position head straight.
Now make a left turn at the first intersection.
When you come to the next intersection make a left turn again.
Once you have major turn on the left is a blue brick building with a red awning.
Continue straight. On your right you will see a white building blue security gates over the windows it also has a blue fence in front and a blue fire escape. In front of the blue fence is where Touchstone is sitting. He is directly in the center and on the ground. Right in front of the middle post. Follow traffic and go through the light, then the 3-way, and take a right at the second light. The right corner shop will have a yellow sign band with red dimensional text, followed by a blue one with red text as well, and a median will be to your left.

Go just past the crosswalk of the next intersection and stop. Touchdown is on the red call box ahead and to your right.
 Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
You should see scaffolding ahead on the left.
Head through the intersection and you should see scaffolding ahead on the right.
Go straight through the next intersection and you should see more scaffolding on your left. Go straight through the next intersection as well and you should see some national flags up ahead on both sides of the road.  Moving forward, you should see some cones in the middle of the road.
Move just to the end of where the cones and tape is roping off a section, just barely into the intersection.  Turn around and you will find Touchdown hiding in a green trash can on the corner, which is next to a pink sign on a metal structure. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and facing the intersection.  Turn left here.  You will pass through a couple of large cone barriers and a hydrant.  Stop at the crosswalk of the intersection coming up and you will find Touchdown hiding on the right red octagon shaped sign. Go in the direction of the bridge.
Keep straight. Before you go under the bridge. Look for a blue and orange basketball court on the right below you. There is a playground behind it. Touchdown is directly at half court of the basketball court.
  Go in the same direction as traffic. Go right at the next intersection. There is construction all along the left side of this road. Turn right at the large white archway and statues ahead in front of you. Go left at the next intersection, stopping immediately after turning. There are garbage bins to your right. Touchdown is sitting right on top of the blue topped can, in the middle of the cover.  Turn yourself so that the tall brownish red brick buildings are to your left. Go down this road. The road will curve slightly. Go until you come to the traffic light and make a right turn. There will be a small park to your right. Go straight through one traffic light. To your right you will see a long bike rack with blue bike rentals. Go until you are at the end of the bike rack and turn to face the bikes. You will see a pay phone. Touchdown is sitting on top of the pay phone.  1) Follow cars to light.
2) Go right
3) Go to the end of the block
4) Go through intersection, but stop before the crosswalk, while still in the middle of the intersection.
5) Find Touchdown on the hydrant between two silver pipes on the sidewalk ahead and to the right. Orient yourself so that on your right is the black store front with white writing and a red rabbit shape. Go straight to the next intersection and turn right. Continue until you reach the next intersection. Just past it, on your right is a red food truck. Touchdown is on the red circle on the food truck. Turn so you'll be walking with the flow of traffic on this one-way street, and the park is on your left.  Go forward until you reach an intersection, and turn left.  
Now the park is still on your left, and you've got construction scaffolding along the right.  Go forward, and the first intersection you come to is a three-way where you can turn right.  Ignore that and keep going straight.  Go to the next intersection, and turn left again (you're working your way around this park).  
You're now on your target block, with the park on your left and a brick building with archways on your right.  Move forward until you've passed all the brick arches.  After the arches there are three big rectangular windows in the brick building.  Stop when you're more or less between the second and third window.  The bear is in the center of the middle window.   Move away from the intersection, passing on your left the light green corner with graffiti and on your right the black borders with red squares. Continue until you reach an intersection, and turn right. Go straight through the first intersection. At the second, stop in the middle of the intersection. Face left and there is a red newspaper box. Touchdown is on top of it. Going with the flow of traffic, proceed into the intersection and take a right.  There will be planters in the median, continue straight to the next intersection and turn right.  Go past the first intersection.  Up ahead on your right there will be a large pile of trash.  Notice the drawer or box that's opening is showing.  Touchdown is hiding there. You will start out very near a 3-way intersection.  You want to exit the intersection off to right away from the road that goes both ways.  This will put scaffolding on your right and a park/playground on your left.
Head down this street for a ways as it bends around to the right, passing the first 3-way intersection.
Turn right at the next intersection and you should see a teal door into the building on your left.  Go straight here.
Stop in the next intersection and there will be a yellow awning ahead on the left and a mailbox on the right next to a phone booth.  Touchdown is on the mailbox. Find the flow of traffic and go with it. You should see a giant poster with a watch on it to your right. You're going to keep straight when you see that poster. There will be a bus on the right and two twin buildings on the left. Keep forward. You're going to pass a little adorable cop car. You should come up to a cross walk and see a guy next to his black car all blacked out. Your touchdown will be the sewer grate behind the black guy. Right in the middle.  Turn so that you're facing the same way the cars are driving. Go straight and cross the first intersection. Continue straight past the row of blue bikes until you reach the next intersection. Turn right at this intersection and go straight. At the next intersection go straight, but stop just after crossing it. There will be a red pillar on the left just past the intersection. Touchdown is sitting at the base of that red pillar, facing the curb. Take a left at the intersection you start close to. Walk forward to the next intersection and take another left. Move forward to another information and again take another left. Finally move forward to one more intersection and take one final left. Move down this road and on your right will be two green metal things. Touchdown is on top of the one on the right.  Orient yourself so you are following the flow traffic with the green building in front of you, Move into the intersection and take a right turn, Continue straight past the store with the purple awning on the right, Turn right at the next intersection, Continue straight past the building with the green awning on the right, Take a right at the next intersection, Continue straight past the two white vans on either side of the road,  Stop and look to your right when you reach the building with the red awning, there's a green pole with a white sign, Click the middle of the white sign to find touchdown. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic heading past the bright blue awnings on the right.
Turn left at the next intersection and you will have a black and white striped awning on your left.
Head down to where the road ends and go left (you may need to maneuver to the right first to find the correct arrow). 
Head forward with the basketball courts to the right.
Turn left at the next intersection and you'll see black fencing on the right and blue and orange awnings on the left.
Move forward and stop a the white store awning, just past the black store awning.  Look up and on the brick building where the black awning is and you will see a yellow sign.  Touchdown is sitting on the yellow sign. Follow the flow of traffic to the intersection.  Turn left.  Walk to the next intersection and turn left.  Walk forward.  There is a section of road that has permanent caution poles.  Go past those.  There will be a parking structure just past them.  There is a orange and black arrow pointing in to the area.  The bear is on that arrow.  Turn so you are heading with the flow of traffic.  Take the first right, then the next right.  After you turn head to the blue tarp on the dumpster. Just before it is a fire hydrant.  The bear is on top. Position yourself so you are traveling the correct way on this one-way street. When you get to the intersection, turn right. Just ahead on the left, before you reach the next intersection, you'll see four newspaper stands. Three of these stands are yellow and one is orange. Touchdown is on top of the orange one.  Orient yourself in the direction of the construction. Take a left at the first intersection. Go straight and take another left. Pastraight under the bridge and go straight. You are now at an intersection with low buildings. There is a fire hydrant to the left behind you. Touchdown is on the hydrant. Turn so you are facing with traffic. You will NOT have any construction or road works on the block ahead of you. Walk forward until the end of the block.

Turn right. You will be headed with traffic again. There is a food cart on your right with yellow and blue umbrellas. Go down the length of the block, keeping an eye on your  right. Toward the end of the block, you'll see a shop with a red sign and white letters next to one with a black sign and lit red letters. On the pavement in front of the red signed shop is an olive green mailbox. Touchdown is on top.
 Orient yourself so that the short black fence is on your right. Move ahead until you reach an intersection, and turn right. Now the fenced grass area is on your right. Move down this street, passing a construction area on the left, one on the right, and a dumpster with tarp. Then just before the intersection, on your right is a blue mailbox. Touchdown is on top of the mailbox. Turn so the closed store security gates are on your left and the shop with the flowers painted on the windows is on your right.  Go forward to the intersection and turn right.  
On this street you'll see a large bridge over the road ahead of you.  Pass straight through the intersection before the bridge, go under the bridge, and make a right at the intersection you come to after going under the bridge.  
You'll now have a building on your right that has an orange square under every second-floor window.  Go straight through the first three-way intersection you come to (small intersection without a stop sign or light).  Go to the next intersection, where there's a big archway to your right.  Make a right into the archway, and stop when you're just inside the archway and even with the small red and white sign on your right.  The bear is in the center of this sign. Turn so you face with traffic and what looks like a brick church is ahead on the left. Walk down three blocks (through two intersections).

At the THIRD intersection, turn left. You now have a light green institutional looking building on your left. Walk about half way down the block, keeping an eye on the left side. After you pass the light green building, you'll come to a white and yellow one. At the far end of this building is a set of green double doors. Touchdown is on the handles of the doors. You are on a one way road, go with the flow of traffic. At the next intersection make a right. There will be a black store front on the left, continue straight. Make another right at the next intersection. There will be green with white signage on the corner store on the left. Continue straight and you will come up on a red brick building with red doors on the left, after this you will see a wood door and entry way on a building with a black fence in front of it. Stop at the end of the black fence. Turn to your right and you will see where a green building meets a brown building. In front of the brown building is a lamppost with a tip on the top, touchdown is on this tip. Going with the flow of traffic, go to the first intersection and turn right. Go to the next intersection and turn right. When you pass all the school buses on your right be on the lookout for a flag on your right hand side.  There's a red and blue one.  Touchdown is hiding in the center of the red one. Follow the flow of traffic and turn right at the intersection. Go forward and turn right at the next intersection. Continue straight at turn right at the next intersection. Go straight through the next intersection. You will see a dark fire hydrant ahead and to your right. The touchdown is the bottom of the hydrant.  Turn around until the orange striped road divider is on your left. Go down that road until you come up to a road on your right. Take a right and head down that road. Go down that road and take a right on your first right. Go about 5-7 stores down on the road. A store on your right should have white paint on the windows. The bear is on the door handle. From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  The orange and white construction barriers should be on your left.  

Move straight forward and keep going until you come to an intersection.  
Stop in the middle of this intersection and turn to your left.  The shop with the white letters and red heart logo should be on your right as you proceed forward.  There should also be three rows of bright blue screens on a building up ahead on the left.  Move forward, and stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to (just before the building with those blue screens).

Turn to your left in this intersection.  The building with the blue screens should be on the right of a narrow street, and a shop with red and white striped signs should be on the left.  Walk down the street between these two buildings.  There will be a small food cart with yellow and blue umbrellas on your right.  

Move forward to where a large yellow truck is parked on the right.  Look to your left for a shop with a long, dark red/maroon awning with white lettering.  It is hanging over some dimly lit windows, and should also have an arch-shaped canopy hanging over a doorway.  Immediately after the canopy are some glowing letters, first orange, and then blue.  Touchdown is on top of the highest point of the front of that canopy. Position yourself so you are following the traffic. Head to the intersection. Turn right at the intersection. Stop at the 3rd intersection. Now on your right side there are 4 orange/white cones outside of a store with yellow tapes. above the door of that store there are two AC units. The touchdown is on the left AC unit.  Face the intersection near you with the purple elevated road on your left.
Turn right at the intersection and continue down the road, turning right at the first intersection you come to.  Once you do you will be on a one-way street with fencing on both sides.  There will also be blue benches on the right.  Go past the first two intersections, both are 3-ways.  At the 3rd, turn right.  If you're in the right spot, the building to your right will be red brick with a black rot iron fence.  Go forward to the next intersection and turn right.  You should see where you started up ahead and a white dumpster a ways down on the right next to an intersection where you could go right.  Touchdown is sitting on the dumpster. With the entrance to a parking garage on your left, move with the flow of traffic to the first intersection, and turn left. Just before the scaffolding begins on your right, there is a tall green post and a blue newspaper stand with an orange traffic cone in the middle. Touchdown is sitting on the point of the cone.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic. Go forward until the first opportunity to turn, and turn right (into the tunnel). Continue straight, exiting the tunnel, and continue until an intersection. Turn right. Then continue, passing a park on your right, until the next intersection; turn right again.

Go forward until passing the sand area on your right. Ahead of you on the right you can see two brown brick arches. Touchdown is at the top in the center of the closest arch. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the intersection just in front of you. Move toward into the intersection and take a right. There will be construction on your left and several high-rise buildings in the distance in front of you. Move forward going straight past the first two intersections. There is a three-way intersection between the first two intersections, ignore this and keep going forward. Once you pass the second intersection you will see orange and white construction barriers on a right and a green wall on the left. Move forward until you have passed the first crosswalk of the next intersection. Look up to your left and you will see  they mostly blue billboard with some palm trees on it.  Touchdown is sitting on the palm tree all the way to the left. With the blue bicycles to your left, go to the intersection and take a right turn. You'll have blue awnings to your left.  Go to the next intersection and take a right. There will be a hat vendor to your left.   Make your way down this long block until you see a rack of blue bicycles on your left.  The first two bike slots are empty.  Touchdown is on top of the first grey bicycle post. At the corner you are starting at turn left and go with the flow of traffic.At the first traffic light turn left.go just past the next street an touchdown is sitting on the ground between the light pole and the trashcan on your right side Turn so the black shop with red letters is on your right and there's a large tan building on your left.  Walk forward, going straight at the three way intersection that's right in front of you.  Walk down the the major four way intersection and turn right.  Walk to the next intersection and turn right again.  Walk down the street and look for a colorful pained garage door.  Starting with the tree that's in front of the garage door, and count the ones on the right.  Walk down to the fifth tree and stop.  Turn to your right and look for the storefront that has a brown awning.  The touchdown is on the middle of the front of the awning, covering some of the white markings. Turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  The black and gold building should be on your right.  Walk straight down this street until you come to an intersection.    

In the intersection, turn to your right.  You should see a temporary, diamond-shaped orange sign to your left and a green lamppost on the corner to your right.  Walk down this road until you come to another intersection.

Stop in the middle of the intersection and turn right.  Walk down the narrower street that has a shop with green signs on the left and a shop with a small orange sign on the right.  Keep going straight down this road.  You will pass some scaffolding on your right. 

Your destination is on this street.  When you see a purple and yellow banner on a lamppost on your right, you are about halfway there.  

Move forward until you see a large white billboard on your left with big red letters.  Touchdown the Bear is sitting on top of the first letter on that sign (the one that is furthest to your right)

 Turn so you are facing with the flow of traffic. Walk to the end of the block and turn right.

Walk down to the end of this street and turn right again

There is a hot dog stand with a red umbrella on the right corner of the street you're walking down. As you pass the scaffolding on the right, look to your left. 
There's a parking sign that is white with red writing. Touchdown is on that sign. Turn so you are facing the wrong direction of traffic. Go straight down this street that has short gates on either side of the road. Go straight through the first intersection. Continue straight through the second intersection. Just after passing through this intersection, look to your left at a building with the window displays lined with blue lights and garland. One of these windows is right on the corner and in the display is a large oval. Touchdown is sitting right in the middle of this oval.  Go in the same direction of the Lawn Ranger Sprinkler van.
Turn right at the first intersection.
Turn right again at the next intersection.
Keep straight pass the upcoming intersection.
On the left there is a building you can drive under with a large number two on a 
black overpass.
Touchdown is directly on the large white number two.
I had to move a bit pass the building to place Touchdown. 

  Turn to move in the direction of traffic. Turn left at the intersection. At the next intersection, take a left. Pass the school on your right. Take a left at the intersection. You have to get to the second chance to turn at that intersection. Make sure you're not heading into oncoming traffic. Stop when you are standing on top of the crosswalk. If you look directly to your right, you will see an orange barrel sitting on the curb outside of a light brick building with white doors and an iron fence. Touchdown is on top of the barrel. Turn so the building with the white and orange awning is on your left. Go down this road all the way to the next corner and turn right. When you turn, cement barriers are on your right and large red Christmas ornaments piled on top of eachother are on your left. Go down to almost the next corner. 

Turn to your right and the pole has 2 direction signs on it that point in opposing directions. Touchdown is in the center of the bottom one. Turn so traffic is facing you. Go down this fairly long block with scaffolding on the right, then on the left. Keep going past more scaffolding on the right and white/orange striped road cones on the left. 
Go to the intersection and turn left. You will be facing traffic again. 
Go down this road and you will see scaffolding on your left at an intersection. Go just past the intersection. There will be a bus stop on the left side. Just before the bus stop is a tree in the sidewalk. Touchdown is waiting at the base of that tree.
 Head down the street with traffic. You will see a yellow delivery truck on your right and a big brown delivery truck on your left. Head down this street until you come to an intersection with a building with a bright red stripe around it. Take a right in front of it. Head down this road until you reach the next intersection. There is a large building with pillars in front of it on the left. Take a right here. Head down this street until you come to the large brown delivery truck on the left. There is a brown bin on the left side of the street. Touchdown is on top of the orange cone that is to the left of the brown bin on the right side of the road. Orient yourself so you're facing with the flow of traffic and have a green wall to your right. Walk forward to the intersection. Turn left so you have the six story gray building to your left. Walk forward through the first intersection to the next one. When you get to the intersection with a blue-gray building and with a blue lettered sign on your right, turn left. You're now walking down a street with a playground to your right. Before you reach the end of the playground fence, you'll see a black fire hydrant next to a blue trash bin. Come parallel with the black hydrant. Touchdown is at its base. This is a one way road, go with the flow of traffic passing a red flag with red and yellow lettering on your left. Keep going straight, passing some rainbow flags on your left, at the next intersection make a left, you will be going with the flow of traffic again. At the very next intersection you will make another left. Stop very near the corner of this intersection, if your turn to your left you should see a blue street food stand and to your right is a parked white work van. Turn to your left to the blue street food stand. Touchdown is in the center of the tire on the street food stand. Go straight in the direction of the scaffolding and statue and take a left. Take another left around the next statue. Go straight past some bright blue enrances to the left. When you see flags on the left, stop. Touchdown is in the blue section of a red, white and blue flag. Turn so you going the same direction as the cars parked on your left. Head down this street to the first intersection. Take a left at this intersection. You will have a green bike lane on your left. Head down this street to the next intersection. Take a  left here. You will see a brick building on your left with white accents. Head down this street to the intersection. Take a left here. On the right you will a red building with lots of plants in pots outside. Touchdown is sitting on the left side of the bench in front of this building waiting for you! Direct yourself the same direction as traffic and go straight. You should be heading toward a dark colored pedestrian bridge. Go under the bridge and at the intersection take a left. There will be a lane closed sign on your left and a store will food on the windows on your right.  Go straight. You will pass a parking garage on the right. You will pass under one bridge and keep going until you are all the way under the second bridge. There will be two diamond shaped orange signs in front of you. touchdown will be on the bottom sign. Hello. Please orient yourself facing the flow of traffic and parked cars. There will be a dark building with huge windows to your left side. You will see mannequins in the window fronts. To your right side will be a tall clear building with a sign that has black letters and a red checkmark.

Walk forward down this path. Go straight across the 4-way intersection. As you continue down this path, you will see flags appear on both sides of tall light colored buildings. 

You will see a long row of blue bicycles start to appear on your left side. Slow down as you approach them. Please stop when you are almost to the end of the line of bicycles. To your right side, you will see a white van with blue letters. In front of the white van, there will be a bright yellow van with red letters with the back doors open.

Touchdown is in the middle of the rear wheel of the bright yellow van to your right side. It will be the wheel closest to you. Good luck! Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Go straight through the next intersection.
Turn left at the next intersection when there is scaffolding on the left corner (this will put that scaffolding on your right).
Going forward will eventually push you into an intersection where you're staring at a yellow and orange box in front of a store.  Turn left here.  You'll see a long row of bike parking spots with a few bikes left ahead on the right.
Go straight through the next intersection.
You will shortly see a store on the right with a tan, orange, red and brown tile frame.  Above the store name is a small A/C unit.  Touchdown is on that unit. Go with the flow of traffic and turn left at this first intersection.  At the next street, turn left.  There will be a park to your left.  Go straight till this road dead ends and take another left.  At the next light take a left and stop when you are even with the pallet of bricks and beginning of the traffic barricades on your right  Touchdown is on the first black circle on top of the first white traffic barricade (closest to the traffic cone). Follow traffic to the light, and go right.  Go right again at the next light.  Enter the intersection at the second light and stand in the middle of it, where ahead to your left is a building on the corner with a red band and blue dimensional letters, and scaffolding on the right corner.   Touchdown is center atop the grey kiosk to the right of the green street sign pole. If you don't see it, take a step to the right (while standing in the middle of the intersection). Follow traffic and go left at the light, and left again at the next one. There will be a grey sign band with red text on the shop on the left and scaffolding on the corner shop on the right. Stop before the grey entry canopy with white text on the right, which is just before more scaffolding.  That building has white fire escapes.

Touchdown is center in the middle of the grill of the air conditioner above the grey canopy on the right side window of the white framing that has fire escape to either side but not on it. Align yourself so that the green fence is on your left. Head past the first left turn, and take the second. You'll pass under the bridge and make a left at the next turn.

Head down until you're at the next left turn intersection, and look to your right. You should see a wooden blockade with some construction paint at the bottom, and two orange, white and red signs on them. Touchdown is on the one in front, in the middle. Orientate yourself so the grey building with the multiple green awnings are to your right, there will also be a brick building to your left.
Proceed straight down this short  one way street to the traffic light, and turn right .

The first intersection on this road will have a green fenced in construction area ahead to the left, continue straight through this intersection.

At the next intersection there will be a store with  a green awning and white writing on the corner to your right . 
Make a right turn here.
Continue on this short block leaving the green scaffolding to your left.

Upon arriving at the intersection stop just past the crosswalk and see the light post ahead and to the right on the corner, it has a green and white rectangular sign on it, and a trash can in front.
Touchdown is sitting on top of that trash can. Turn so you have the store with a red awning and is on your right and you can follow the same direction as the cars are driving.  Follow traffic to the first intersection and turn left.  You'll see a grey building with a round burgundy sign up high on your right.  Follow this road, past the green construction on your left and stop when you reach the building with a bright red sign and blue store front.  Touchdown is in the middle of the yellow circle on the sign with blue waves.  He is right in the very middle, the sign is facing the road. Follow the traffic, where the grassy divider is on your left, and make a right at the light, go to the end of the block with the park on the left and make a right. The apartments will be on both sides, stop when you you see the yellow pedestrian crossing signs, Touchdown will be on the sign on your left. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic.  (You'll have a tall fend on your left)  Go straight to the first intersection and turn right.  At the next intersection, you'll turn right again.  There's a bunch of widows in white trim on your right.  A ways down this road, there will be a large wall on your right that is peach with a aqua wave and some graffiti. You won't be able to miss it.  Once you get there, pay attention to the right side of the road.  Touchdown will be on the first manhole cover on the right after this wall starts.  (next to the curb in the street, not on the sidewalk.) There is a mid-century modern looking church next to you.  It has a red door with three square windows, and if you look on the roof you can see the cross and a bell.  Turn so this church is on your left.  Go forward, and straight through the first intersection you come to.  At the second intersection, turn right.  
Now you have red awnings on your right, and you can see bright red stools inside this restaurant.  Go forward until you reach a T-intersection, and turn right.
You'll have a median strip on your left, and fairly nondescript buildings on both sides.  Just ahead of you (really close) is another intersection.  Go straight through this. Another intersection is just a little ways down the block, but you won't have the ability to make a turn here.  Stop when you're still in this non-turning intersection, and haven't yet stepped on to the far crosswalk.  On the corner to your right is a restaurant or shop with red awnings and lots of plants along the sidewalk.  There is a round silver trash can on this corner.  The bear is on top of the trash can. Turn yourself so that the large square pillars are to your left and there is a sidewalk with trees to your right. Go straight down this road. When you come to the stop sign, make a left. Go straight a short distance and you will see a gray brick building to your right and a stop sign in front of you. The gray brick building to your right has two metal roll down doors. Touchdown is sitting at the bottom of the metal door that is closest to the stop sign.  Go in the same direction as traffic, and go left at the next intersection.  Go left again at the one after that, first having to turn a bit to the right. There should now be a red brick building on your right, with a rounded top brown awning. Half way down this street, watch for a light colored building with blue windows and doors on your right. Past the first blue door, stop in front of the gated vehicle entrances soon after, also on the right.  Turn to face the opposite side of the street and you should be in front of a rounded top brown double door on a gray stone building. Touchdown is sitting on top of the lamp to the left of that door.  turn to move with traffic keeping the construction barriers to your right. At the 1st intersection take a left, you will come to a 4 way with 4 pine trees planed in box shaped planters on your right, at this intersection take a left. the building on the right has blocks of color in the windows in grey, green and blue colors. You will pass a parking lot on your right, just past that you will see a store sign with a cup of coffee on it, the bear is on the cup of coffee Turn so you are facing the right way of traffic. Go straight. Continue straight until you reach the intersection. Turn right. Go straight down this one way street, passing a green dumpster on the left. Continue straight for awhile until you reach an intersection. Go into the intersection and then look to the left side of the road for a crosswalk sign on a pole on the corner. Touchdown is sitting on this crosswalk sign in the middle of it.  Align yourself with the flow of traffic in your lane. Keep straight, not left, when you hit the closed road. Keep straight through another left turn option, and make a right at the intersection.

Right before the next intersection, on your left you'll see a couple recycling bins surrounding a green trash bin. Touchdown is on top of the blue recycling bin. Orient yourself such that the line of glass doors is on your right and proceed forward. Turn right at the stop sign. Proceed straight through one traffic light and stop just before passing through the second light. On your left should be a tan, one-story rounded building. Touchdown is on the black oval above its door. Go left at the light you're at, so the blue porta-potty is on your left. Go left at the next light, where scaffolding will be to your right. Make a final left at the next light and go to the next light, enter the intersection, but don't pass the crosswalk on the opposite side.

Touchdown is atop the blue mailbox on the right-hand corner in front of you.

 Turn and go down the one way street so that the park is on your right side. Turn left at the first traffic light and then another left at the next light. About 3/4 of the way to the next light on your right you will see Green wooden structure over  a store with a white sign on it and above that sign are what looks like lions faces on the building Touchdown is just below the lions face on the left Walk against traffic, and go through the first light, and make a left at the next. There will be scaffolding to your right behind white and red traffic barriers and you'll now be going with traffic.

Go left at the light. Go left again at the next one. Stop when the brown building with metal roll-up door, prior to the one with the red awning and white glyphs, is on your right.

Ahead on the sidewalk to your right is a grey parking meter with a blue band. Touchdown is atop it. Turn so the green awning us up on your left and light mint green building is up on your right. Go through that intersection but turn right at the next. 

Going with traffic flow, go all the way down to the next intersection and turn right.

Still going with traffic flow, go down through the next intersection. Once you are through you will see a large purple awning on your right and 4 short black awnings on your left. Just past those black awnings on the left are 2 arched windows. The left one has black lanterns on each side of the window. Touchdown is on the leftmost black lantern. Turn so the construction is to your left. At the light ahead take a left. Go one block and take another left. Go down this street until you come to two red octagon signs on either side of the road. Stop in the middle of them. Touchdown is sitting in the middle of the orange object in the planter that is in the median to the left side of the street.  Turn yourself so you facing with traffic and head down the street.  Turn left at first intersection.  Continue to next intersection and turn left again.  As you head down this street you should see stairways with green fencing on both sides of the street.  Continue down this street past the blue and white striped awning on your right.  Just past the awning you will see an open entrance with an orange safety cone.  Touchdown is sitting next to the cone on the right. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  There should be a few flags off to the right.
Turn left at the next intersection and you should see scaffolding ahead on the right.  Passed the first scaffold structure you'll run into some orange and white barriers followed by more scaffolding.  Keep going past them and then some more scaffolding on the left with orange barriers on the left as well.
At the next intersection that has a green awning on the left and a red sign background on the right, turn left.
Head down until you're near a pink awning.  Above the awning in a pink sign where Touchdown is hiding.
 Face the direction which puts the bus on your right and the construction vehicle ahead and on your left. Go to the first intersection and make a right turn. There will be a small white, black, and red building on your right. Go straight. At the next intersection make a right hand turn. Stop at the crosswalk. To your right should be a large pole with a clock on the top. It is golden. Touchdown is in the face of the clock.  Face to where the red and black buildings are directly in front of you. Take a right and go to your first intersection. Walk to the middle of the intersection and look slightly to your left. There is a big box with hamburgers on it directly behind the street light. Touchdown is sitting on the hamburger box.  Turn so you are facing the same direction the traffic is going in. There should be an intersection in front of you. Go straight through the intersection. At the next intersection, turn left. On the right side of the street should be concrete blocks with plants and lights inside of them. Continue going in this direction and on the left side there will be a building with the first floor being black.  There's a set of two black benches along this wall.T he touch down in on the edge of the second bench near the white-bricked portion of the building.  Face the direction traffic is moving, with the flatbed truck on your right.

Go through the first intersection.  At the second intersection, you'll see a large glass building with green signs, turn right down this street.

This street is very crowded with some construction on the right, just keep going.

At the intersection right next to the scaffolding, turn right.

You'll see an American flag and a building way in the back with a large letter at the top.

Go forward until you're in the first intersection.

You should see some planters on the right and a fire hydrant in front of a marquee building.  Touchdown is on the hydrant. Go with traffic flow to the first intersection and turn left. Continue with traffic flow to the next intersection and turn left. Continue to next intersection and go left again. There will be construction scaffolding on the left. Move forward a little bit and there will be a black hydrant with a gray cap that Touchdown is sitting on.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  There's a large yellow building out in the distance to the left. 
Move forward and turn left at the first intersection where you have a left awning ahead and to the left.
You should have a row of bike parking spots on the right, with only a few bikes left.  Go forward past scaffolding on your left.
At the next intersection with a large glass building in front of you, turn left and stop next to the food cart on the right.  Touchdown is hiding on the blue and yellow umbrella.

 Turn so the white umbrellas are on your left and the trees on your right.  Go to the first intersection and turn right keeping the trees on your right.  Follow this road down, passing the little side roads and turning right at the intersection after the back construction wall on your right.   Keeping the construction on your right, proceed into this street a short way and look to your left.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the black bucket on the sign post with the red sign. Go with the flow of traffic until you get to a major intersection, then make a sharp right (this is a weird intersection. Take the furthest right street you can, closest to where you came from). Youll know youre going the right way if you see shrubs on the left side of the street and an organic market on the right (its on the corner). Take this road a short ways until just before the first street youll see on your right. There is a blue mailbox on that corner. Touchdown is sitting on top of that. Orient yourself so that there is an intersection directly in front of you.  Enter this intersection and turn right  There will now be a building with a black, green and red stripe on it off to your right.  Proceed to the next intersection and turn right again.  Go all the way down this long street to the next intersection.  Stop immediately after you cross over the first crosswalk.  Turn to your right and look down.  There is a black wire trashcan on the sidewalk next to a light pole.  Touchdown is sitting at the base of this trashcan.   When you begin moving, the water  will be on your left. Shortly before you get to the point where you'll be going under the bridge, you'll have the option to stay straight or merge right to get off the highway. You're going to merge right.

After you are officially on the ramp, you'll see another split up ahead. right at the fork in the road there are yellow barrels in the median. Touchdown will be sitting in front of the middle yellow barrel.  Stand so you are moving with the flow of traffic on the one way street. Go forward to the next intersection, and turn left. Go to the next (3-way) intersection, and turn left. Soon on your right is a light blue door with tan surroundings. Just past it is a matching door. On the second door, touchdown is on the numbers above it. Follow the flow of traffic to first spot you can turn right.  Backup 1 spot.  There are 3 cones blocking the right turn.  The bear is on top of the dirty one. Go with the flow of traffic, walk to the intersection.  Turn left.  Walk forward into the next intersection.  Go left.  Do not walk!  There is a green wire trash can that is empty.  The bear is in the bottom. Stay on your side of the street, and follow cars.  Go to the next intersection.  Turn right.  Go into next intersection and stop in the middle.  Fire hydrant on the right side.  bear on top. Orient yourself parallel to the cable suspension bridge to the left. Go straight and take a right at the first intersection. There are yards to your left and right. Go straight until you reach the big intersection with green scaffolding. Bear a little bit right but keep going straight. Enter the street a little bit. Touchdown is on an orange light on the low barrier; the farthest one. Turn to the right until you're looking down the street. There should be a red SUV on the right side of the frame now. Begin moving forward until you reach an intersection. Take a left here. Keep moving forward until reaching a three-way intersection. Take another left here. Move forward three times. Turn to the right until you see a red and white street sign next to a series of green boards. Touchdown is sitting on top of that street sign. Orient yourself so that a working is unloading a truck on your left. Keep left and then turn left at the first intersection. You will see rainbow flag as you go forward. Turn left at the next intersection and keep right as the road splits. Stop once you go straight through the next intersection. The touchdown is the center of the white pot of the potted plants on your right.  Go in the direction that puts the parking garage to your left and a crosswalk right in front of you. Go straight through the next intersection and stop just past the bus stop on your right. Turn around and go back the direction you came from. The bus stop should now be on your left. Go back to the intersection and make a right. You will have a tall building to your right with a multicolored pattern on it. At the next intersection you will veer slightly to the right before making a left. You will have a temporary construction walkway on the left. Near the middle of the temporary construction walkway you will see a blue and white awning on the right, stop before this. To your left is a white double door outlined in light blue and to the right are black and yellow signs. Tun to the left to look at the white double door. There is a window on each door, touchdown is in the center of the window on the right.  Turn to face with traffic, then go to the end of the block. Now go out into the intersection. There should be incredibly flashy buildings with billboards at every corner, with some construction work behind you. Turn to face toward the pink signs, you should see a plant in a giant vase. Touchdown is in the vase, in front of the plant. You are on a one way road, go with the flow of traffic. Go straight through the first intersection. Then go straight through the following intersection. You will now have red awnings on the right and an old Gothic type of building to your left. At the next intersection make a left, you will have a bright blue and white sign on your right and the old Gothic building on your left. Go to the next intersection and make a left and stop right after the crosswalk, turn to your left and you will see a fenced in green court with a large tree in front of it. On the corner is a street light with a trash can next to it. Touchdown is in the opening of the trashcan. Position yourself so the median with trees is on your left and green scaffolding is just ahead on your right. Go straight through the first two traffic lights. 

When you arrive to the third intersection, there will be a gray building with a bright blue sign on your right. You're going to go right at this light, but don't take the first right turn. Take the second one. A store with pictures of fruits, vegetables, and smoothies will be on your right after you get through the turn.

Just ahead is green scaffolding on your right. Turn right where it ends at the corner and you'll be  on a narrow one-way street. Keep going straight until you reach a playground on your left. Look for the red pointed canopy, which is the highest point of the playground equipment. Walk until you are in line with that point. Turn your body left, and you can pick up Touchdown at the very top of the canopy. Go with traffic and pass through the light,  and go just a step right at the next, stopping before the crosswalk.

Ahead on the sidewalk, to your right, is a hydrant between two silver pipes, upon which Touchdown sits. Face the direction of the parked cars, with the scaffolding on your right, and make a left at the intersection. Continue going straight, following the highway on your right, make a left when you reach the baseball field. Follow the field and stop before you completely pass it. On your right, there will be a yellow sign with two people, Touchdown is on the center of it. Position yourself so the guy on the bike is next to you on your right. Now you should see a navy color van parked in front of two mailboxes. You are facing the right direction then. Now go straight forward. You will see 5 orange traffic cones on the left side of the road. Pass them, then on the right side of the road you will see a bright yellow sign. There are two people and 5 letters on the sign. The touch down is right in the middle on the two people.  turn to move with traffic, go through the 1st light at the second take a right at the blue painted building, the blue building remains on your right, go straight down this road, go through the 1st light, you will pass a store with a poster of a woman hand touching her face, just past that is an arched doorway with a brown and glass door, there is a circle window above the door. The bear is in the middle of that door Begin moving with the flow of traffic so the scaffolding is on your right. At the first intersection, turn right. After you turn, a mostly glass building with small green signs will be on your right. 

Walk just ahead to the next intersection, and turn right again. Now, a food vendor with red and yellow umbrellas will be on your left and a vendor with blue and yellow umbrellas will be just ahead on your right. Continue straight and when you get to the light-colored building with arched windows and ornate gray balconies on your right, start to slow down. You'll also notice this building has an American flag and a bright blue flag with gold writing. Up ahead is green scaffolding on your right and a tall orange ladder leaning up against it. Just past the ladder is a sign pole and a traffic light pole, and in between them is a black fire hydrant with a silver top. Touchdown is sitting right on top of the cap to the hydrant.  Turn so you are facing the flow of traffic, and step into the intersection. Take a left. Travel up the block taking a second left at the next intersection you come to.  Travel up the street a bit and you will come to a little side street. Turn left onto the side street. You should see a big ivy covered fence on your right once you make the turn. 

As you travel watch the left side of the road. You should come to a green building with three floors. It has a black front door. Stop directly in front of this building.

To the left of the door there is a black bin covering the trash cans. Touchdown is on top of it on the front corner closest to where you are.  At this intersection, orient yourself so that you are going with the flow of traffic. At this intersection make a right turn. You will pass a metal wrought iron fence on your left, keep going straight. Go through the next intersection. As you go down the street you will see a green awning on your left. Immediately after the awning you will come to an intersection, turn right here. Basketball courts will be on your left. On the right you will see blue and yellow fencing. On the left there will be a red brick building. The red brick building has a white entrance fence/gate that is closed. Touchdown is hanging out on that gate From the starting position, turn so that you are facing the same direction as the flow of traffic. Move down the street until you get to the first intersection. At the first intersection, turn left. You will quickly reach another intersection.  At this intersection, turn left again. Move down the street until you reach another intersection. Turn left again. You'll see some stores with a bunch of scaffolding on your right. You'll also see some scaffolding on your left. Move a small way down the street until you pass the scaffolding on your left. At this point on your right, you'll see a bus stop sign in blue and white. Touchdown is sitting on the bus stop sign. Orient yourself so that the concrete median is on your left and the brick building is on your right.  Go straight taking the curve to the right. Go straight all the way down this road passing the crosswalk. You will start to come up to a set of light red brick buildings. They look like apartment buildings. The first building you see to your right will have a space between the first and second building. Walk until you are level with the space. Look to your right, There will be 5 trees. The building on your right will have a blue  sign on the corner showing the apartment numbers. Touchdown will be on the blue sign. Turn so the hedges are on your left and scaffolding on your right. Go to the corner and turn right. 

Go to the next corner and turn right again.

With cars parked on a diagonal on both sides, go down this road going through the 3-way about a block down, then shortly is an intersection you need to turn right at. Stay to the right before you get to that intersection, then turn right at the intersection. 

When you turn, go through the 3-way option that comes up shortly. Before you get to the next corner, look to your left. There is a gate with a red octagon sign with red lettering on it on the fence gate. Touchdown is in the center of this sign.  Go with the flow of traffic down the road. Go past the first intersection and under the bridge then take a left. You should see a bridge on your left now and a red brick building on your right. Go to the intersection and take a left. You will be going under the bridge again and through that first intersection with green scaffolding on the left and a fence to your right just under the bridge. On the ground you will go past the big white text on the road. Before you hit the next intersection you will see a greyish brick building with 4 air conditioners on the first floor. Your touchdown is the light just below the cameras at the end of the building.  Turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street. 
 The red brick building should be on your right. and the concrete divider should be on your left.  

Walk forward.  Pass the first side street on your right, and then pass the second side street (after a big pile of garbage bags on the sidewalk).  

You should now see a parking lot, behind a fence under the bridge on your left, and two orange signs on a lamppost on your right.  Continue forward into the intersection with the traffic light.  

Stop in the intersection and turn right.  You should see a white limo parked on the right of this street with its trunk open.  There is also a divider with green grass in some kind of long red box.  Walk down this road, so that the limo is on your right and the grass divider is on your left.  

You will see an orange, rectangular sign on a lamppost up ahead.  Just move straight through that intersection and keep moving forward, passing two blue benches on your right.  

Continue moving forward, and you will reach a T-intersection with a street to your left.  Just walk straight through that intersection, and onto the crosswalk on the other side.  

Look to your right, and you should see a yellow box holding a pedestrian traffic signal.  Move close enough that you can look right into the face of this light, and Touchdown the Bear will be sitting right on top of the yellow box.  There will be a basketball court behind it. Position yourself so you are at the intersection that is right in front of you. Turn right at the intersection. Move down this road until you get to the third intersection and turn right at the third intersection. As you turn here, there will be red canopies to your right. Continue down this road past the orange cones on the left. Go down to where you see a fire escape on the right side, just beyond a tree. Right under the fire escape is a gold sign with numbers on it and Touchdown is sitting on top of those numbers.  Turn so you are going with traffic. Go straight. At the light take a left. Go straight. Go though two intersections. At the next intersection change sides of the street so you traveling against traffic. On your left will be a light stone colored building with some smallish green lettering on it. In the center median to your right there is a line of trees and low growing greenery in planters. On the far right side of the street you will see a yellow truck with colorful designs on it. Keep going straight. At the light you will come to go straight. There will be a gray building on your left with an arch design above the windows and ornate details above the entrance. Stop just before you get to the crosswalk at the intersection after this building. On your left is an upside down shaped up design pipe on the sidewalk. Touchdown is sitting on top of this pipe. Turn around to where the yellow bus is on your left and head down that street until you reach the intersection and turn right and go down that street. Go down the road until you reach the second intersection at the end of the street with the orange sign to your right. Next turn right down that street and go until you see a bus stop on your right. The bear is at the very top left of the bus stop. Go to the brick paved street and turn left.
Turn right at the intersection.
Turn right at the next intersection (it maybe hard to see, a small side street)
There are some road work barriers on the left side of this street.
Turn right at the next intersection.
Stop just before the next intersection behind a blue and gray pick up truck with a red strip on the side with the words sign guy.
Look left of the pick up truck, there is a building with an outside light turned on. 
Touchdown is directly on the outside light.

 With the park to your left, follow traffic through three lights and go left at the fourth. 

The park, as well as orange metal fencing and white k-walls with orange stripes, will be on your left. Go past the 3-way intersection and stop just before the small red sign on a pole on your right.  Rotate right. 

You should be facing a square planter with a green bush, the last of all the planters with bushes.  Touchdown is on the black square plaque on the white pillar to the left of it. Orient yourself with traffic and proceed through the light. Go through the next light as well, then turn left at the following light. Turn left at the next intersection too. Go through the next intersection. Pass a bus stop on the right and stop at the next tree on the right. Touchdown is at the base of this tree. Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the tree in the median to your left in front of you. Continue moving forward to the next intersection and take a right. On your right you should see scaffolding with a green awning and on your left is a building with a black awning with a blue stripe. Continue moving forward to the next intersection and take another right. There should be a liquor store directly to your left and a bank with a red and blue logo ahead to your right. In the sidewalk by the bank with a red and blue logo is a black hole has a blue stripe on the top of it. Move forward so that you are in line with the black pole with the blue stripe. Turn to face the pole and you will find touchdown sitting on top of it. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.

Step into the intersection and turn right.  This will put a fenced in yard on your right.  Go forward and through the weird step back, but still go straight.

At the intersection, turn right.  Go straight until you're in the crosswalk of the next intersection.  If you turn left and slightly back, you'll see a yellow box on the sidewalk.  Touchdown is on top of this box. Get turned so the median is on your left side. Go straight. At the first intersection keep going straight. The road curves a little ahead. You will cross over a pedestrian crosswalk. The next intersection where there is a very tall chainlink fence on the right side you need to make a left turn. Cross over the first crosswalk you see. Make another left turn like you are making a uturn back onto the street you were first on but on the other side now. The median is on your left again  Go just a short distance until you are almost to the bright yellow sign on the right side. Touchdown is on the top part of that sign.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Turn right at the next intersection.
Walk through 2 intersections.  As you approach the next intersection, a green brick building with a black and white awning will be on your right, turn right down that street.
You should walk past a blue tarp and some white and orange barriers.
Turn right at the next intersection.
Go forward until you're almost to the red awning on your right.  To that right of that awning is a store with blue signs under the window.  You're looking for the clock on the white building that the awning is on.  Touchdown is on that clock. Turn so you are going with traffic. Take a right at the yellow awning. Go one block passing though a small intersection with no light. At the light take a right. Go one block and stop int he intersection. Touchdown is sitting on the black and white sign with an arrow on it that is located on the right side of the street. It has a blue sign above it if it is the correct one.  Position yourself so the the short brick wall is on your right and the median with trees and shrubs is on your left. Go straight to the first intersection, and turn right. After you turn, there will be a light blue building on your right and a red newspaper stand on your left.  

After the blue building is a fenced in parking lot. Just after the entrance to that parking lot is a fire hydrant on your right between two short poles. Touchdown is perched on top of that hydrant.  Follow the direction of the traffic, heading to the intersection, you will see two stop signs. Then turn left at the intersection, following the direction of traffic. Go straight till you see the orange construction cones on the left of the street. turn left where the yellow cones are. Now you should see a white van on your right. Go straight to the next stop sign. You will see a black van and a clothes rack on the left side . Turn left here (you may need to head to the middle of the intersection to be able to see the left turn arrow). Once you turned, the black van should be on your left. Go to the direction where the black can is heading. Stop at the next turn where you can only turn left, you will see a dark red SUV on the left side of the street and a biker sign on the road. Turn left here. Once you see the road sign, there is a white sign on it with letters and numbers, the touch down is on the sign.  Move with the flow of traffic until you reach an intersection. Before reaching it, you'll pass alternating orange and white barriers to your left. At the intersection, turn right. Now you will pass a store with a blue sign on your left. At the next intersection, turn right again. Pass the red umbrella on your right. Soon, before a green sidewalk covering, there is a store window with neon purple lights around the border. In that window is red writing. Touchdown is on the red writing. Orient yourself with traffic, proceed to the light, and turn left. Turn left at the next light too. Pass a large red flag on the right. Stop when you pass the second opening of the parking garage on the right. Touchdown is on the center of a nine-bulb lighting apparatus in the center of the street to your left. Position yourself in which there is some scaffolding on your left near a green trash can and a brown awning on your right. Follow the road passing two red awnings on your right till you reach an intersection. Make a right turn at the intersection. Once you made a right turn continue forward, passing some scaffolding, trees, and blue awning on your right. Eventually you should arrive at an intersection in which you should be close to the side walk but not on it. There should be a trash can on your right hand side close to a black and grey fire hydrant. The touch down is on sitting on top of the hole of the trash can. With the mural on your left, face the intersection and take a left turn here. You'll see some ladders on your left.  Go to the next intersection and take a right. You'll have a green wall to your left.  Go to the next intersection and take a right.  There will be two mailboxes on your left.  You'll pass a bus stop on your left. Touchdown is on the first traffic barrel after the bus stop. Turn and follow the flow of traffic.  Take the first right.  Pass through 3 intersections and stop.  Look right, there is a blue mailbox.  The bear is on top. Orient yourself so you are facing the intersection.  There should be a white building with a black sign that has pink and white on it in front of you.  Enter the intersection by moving forward and then turn to your right and follow the flow of traffic down this road.  Take the first road on your right.  Go up this road to the second intersection.  Turn right, making sure there is a green awning on scaffolding below a purple and white flag on your left.  The street should be brick/stone.  Travel down this road to the next intersection.  Turn right and move down this street.  Just before you enter the intersection, you should see a red a octagonal red sign with a white board and white letters on a pole to your right.  Touchdown is in the middle of this sign. Go straight down the road in the direction where the brighter red church is on your left. It has arched windows and one large arch over the doors with stairs leading up. Keep going straight through the next small intersection where the lanes split. Go straight until the next intersection.Turn to the right and don't go any further. There is a double bench in the walk area in the median that is on the left.. Touchdown is on the ground right at the middle point of the two benches. Face the ABF Freight truck. Move forward until you reach your fourth intersection. There will be a white billboard ahead with large blue font. Turn left. Now take the next left you come to. Touchdown is coming up immediately on your left, sitting in the doorway of a clothing store between two racks of clothes. Orient yourself so that a billboard with the united states is on your right. Proceed and turn left at the first light. Turn left at the next light also. Stop when even with a trio of glass doors on the left. Touchdown is on the face of a green woman wearing a crown in the store logo to the right of the doors. Get turned so the red dumpster is on your right side and you are going the same direction the cars are pointing. When you come to the intersection turn right. On your right you'll see shopping carts stacked together against a building. Go most of the way down this short block to a  small 3 way intersection with a road to the right. Stop just before that small intersection. There is a construction barrel on the left side that is close to a pole that is on the sidewalk. Touchdown is on top of that barrel.  Go in the same direction as traffic. There is a brick wall with a black iron fence on it to your left. Soon see steps on your right with a purple flag on the bldg.above them. Stop just past the flag and turn toward the building. You should be in front of stairs with a green double door at the top. Touchdown is sitting on the doorknob of the left side green door. You are standing in an intersection.

Rotate until you can either turn right, move forward, or move backward.

Move forward through the intersection.

Proceed to the next intersection.
turn right at the intersection.

Proceed to the next intersection.
Move through the intersection without turning.

Proceed to the next intersection.
Do not enter the intersection. If you have entered the intersection and can turn, you've moved to far and should take a step back.

There is a large orange pole in the intersection.

The bear is sitting on top of the pole.


 Go with traffic down the one way street. 
Turn left at the first intersection.
Turn left again at the next intersection. Both building at the corner has there security gates down and there is pink colorful artwork painted on the left wall.
Enter the next intersection and stop.
Turn around and face the orange building on the corner. There is a fire hydrant outside the orange building. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant.
 Orient yourself so you are looking directly into the tunnel.  Go all the way straight through the tunnel.  Continue straight up the normal street level, and straight through a "Y" type intersection (although you won't have the ability to turn there, it's just painted on the street).  There are traffic cones lining both sides of your lane just past the "Y" intersection.  When you get to the end of them, stop.  Look to your left, there's a booth for a guard of some kind, and on top of the booth is a white air conditioner.  The touchdown is sitting on top of the air conditioner.    Turn yourself so the playground is on your left and start down the street. Continue straight through intersection.  Construction scaffolding will be on your left.  Continue straight towards cement archway.  You will pass orange and white construction barriers on your left. Take second available left at intersection just before the crosswalk under the archway.  The bike median will be on your left.  You will see a wire fence on your right as you head down the street.  Just past the fence are yellow poles on your right.  Touchdown is sitting on the first yellow pole you will come to outside a wire fence gate. Turn around so that you are looking down a wide road with red-colored lanes on both sides.  There should be an orange and white barrel and some short silver poles on the right.  Walk down this road, between the red lanes, and then stop when you come to an intersection.  

In the intersection, turn to your right.  You should now see a stone-walled building with white lettering and security cameras on your right, and a park on your left.  Walk down the road between these two things.  

Stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to, and look for a blue mailbox on the right-hand sidewalk up ahead.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this mailbox. Face the intersection and enter it. Turn right down the one-way street with orange and white barriers in front of green scaffolding on the left. Continue down the block until you reach an intersection with a traffic light. Enter the intersection. There is a yellow construction vehicle just beyond the green scaffolding straight ahead. Touchdown is on the top of the hinge in the arm of the construction vehicle.  Orient yourself so there is a blue sign on your right and a brick wall on the left. Turn right at this first intersection you can see. When there is a large glass building with more modern blue signage on the right, keep right at the split. There should be a tall skinny tower coming up ahead, with metal scaffolding on the right. Turn right as the scaffolding ends. You'll be on a one way street with a park along the left. Touchdown is on top of an orange construction barrel as the end of the black park fence comes into view. Turn and follow the flow of traffic.  Take your second right (In the first intersection), then take the next right.  On your right you will find a red wall.  Stop near the end of the wall.  Look towards the ground.  There is an arrow pointing at an orange and white barricade.  The arrow is pointing at the bear. Going with the flow of traffic, go to the first intersection and turn right.  There's a street right before you get to the light.  You need to turn right onto the street before the light.  There will be a reddish brick building on the corner with blue, green and white geometrical advertisements in the windows. on your right.   There will be a street ahead to your right, that you'll need to turn right onto.  There will be a dark brick building on your right. On your left ahead will be a building that's painted white.  Touchdown will on top of  the fire hydrant in front of the building on the corner.  Orient yourself with traffic and proceed. Turn right at the stop light. Proceed through the next light then turn right at the second. Stop before a parking garage on the right. Touchdown sits to the right of a person on a bench on the left. Go with the flow of traffic to the first intersection and turn right. Go to the first intersection and Touchdown will be on the first American flag you see on the left ahead.  In the blue field of stars. Align yourself with the scaffolding on your left. Head to the intersection, and make a right. At the next intersection, make another right.

Follow this road down a bit, almost to the next intersection. Stop when you see a glass building with scaffolding in its entrance, that looks like it's being remodeled. You should see a grey trash bin underneath the blue scaffolding. Touchdown is on top of the bin. Follow the flow of traffic and go to the intersection.  Continue straight.  Right at the next intersection.  There is a little hotdog stand on your left.  Continue forward.  Go through the next intersection.  At the next intersection click to go right, but don't move.  There is a purple drawing of a face on the ground/sidewalk.  The bear is on the lips. Please turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street, and can see arrows painted on the road ahead of you.  There should be bicycles docked on the sidewalk to your left.  

Walk forward a short distance, and stop in the middle of the intersection.  Turn to your left and walk down a narrow road with construction barriers and yellow carts on the right-hand side.  Just go straight, past some red brick buildings, until you reach an intersection.  

At the intersection, turn to your left so that you see a red brick building on the left-hand side and a shop with a dark yellow bar above its windows on the right.  Walk down the road between these two buildings.  

It will now be a long straight walk.  Pass straight through the first intersection, where you should see a red sign on the left with white lettering, but try to avoid stepping at an angle to your right, or you will not be able to stay on the main road.  Make sure that the red brick building with the horizontal black, red, and green stripe is always on your right, until you have passed it and you see a door with a black awning.  

Walk straight through the next intersection, and make sure that you can see a yellow awning on your right and a black awning with gold lettering on your left. 

Go forward a bit further, but not all the way into the next intersection.  You should see an American flag hanging down from a red brick store front.  On top of that store is a satellite dish.  Touchdown the Bear is sitting on top of the satellite dish. Position yourself in which there is a scaffolding on your left. Follow the road passing several banners on your right and a scaffolding. Once you pass the scaffolding, you should be at an intersection. At the intersection, make a left turn, Once you made a left turn follow the road and pass the red, white and blue flag on your right and continue forward passing the orange cones on your left. Once you pass the orange cone you should be at the intersection in which you should make a left turn. Once you made a left turn, continue forward passing various buildings with glass windows. Along the way you should pass various flags on your left hand side. Once you pass the flag you should notice a building with a door that has a gate around it on your left. Pass the gate and look to your right, there should be a grey pipe near a gray door. The touchdown is on top of the gray pipe. Orient yourself so you are following the direction of traffic and proceed to the end of the block.  At the intersection at the end of the block, turn right.  Go forward to the next intersection and turn right again.  As you walk down this street, keep an eye out for the green scaffold awning on your left.  As soon as you're were that starts, stop and turn right.  You should see a store that has a bright orange awning with black markings on it.  Touchdown is in the middle of the orange awning where the markings and picture are. Face yourself to go with traffic flow down the long block. Turn right at the first intersection you come to. 

Still with traffic flow, this block is much shorter. Go to the first corner and turn right. When you turn there is a clear awning on your left. Beyond that is a cream colored building with a green trim bottom on the left. On the right, across the street from the cream building, is a dark gray building. Just beyond the dark gray building on the right is an arched window with a light at the top of the arch that is turned on. Touchdown is on top of this light that is lit.  Align yourself so that the scaffolding is up ahead on your right, and continue down this road until you can make the first left. You'll head up to the next intersection to make another left, and should pass two graffiti'd olive post boxes on your left heading down this road. You'll pass a sort of dirty dark red awning with chairs on your left, then 4 green chairs surrounding a tree, then stop in front of the 3 green chairs in front of the second set of red awnings. To the left of the second set of green chairs around the tree, there's a red bike tied to a pole. Touchdown is on the seat of the bike. Align yourself with the flow of traffic. Follow the road until you reach the intersection, then make a left. Follow this road until the next short interwsection, and make another left. Pass the buses and the blue SUV until you're in front of the black car. Touchdown is on the logo of the black car. Follow traffic to the light and go left, and go left again at the next light. Stop before you pass the image of a human female displaying her backside in black underwear and rotate left.  There is a single yellow metal bollard to the right of a grey square metal control box, behind a low chainlink fence.

Touchdown is atop the yellow bollard. Orient yourself so you are facing the same direction as the traffic.  Begin walking down this road.  Continue straight across the first intersection.  Pass the row of blue rental bicycles on your left, past the lion statue on your left, and begin looking for a long row of blue awnings on your left and similar black awnings on your right.  Both have lights hanging from the edge of the awnings.  When you reach the beginning of the awnings, stop and look to your right.  There are two red balls with yellow bulbs sticking out of them above the black awnings.  Touchdown is in the center of the red ball that is in the middle of the line of awnings, further away from where you're currently standing. From your staring point please turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on the street.  The building with the green and white signs should be on your left.  Walk down this street and pass straight over the first intersection, and go straight past the small parking lot on the left and the shop with black, white, and red signs on your right.  

After you pass a shop with a red awning on the right, stop in the middle of the intersection.  Turn to your right, so that you are looking down a 3-or-4 lane road with the red awning shop on your right.  

Start walking down this main road, going the same direction as the cars, and stop in the middle of the first intersection you come to.  

Turn to your right so that you see a traffic light directly ahead of, and above, you.  Walk down this narrow two-lane road.  

Go straight through the first intersection, and keep walking past the blue scaffolding on your left.  

Pass some more scaffolding on your right. 

You will soon see a small store front with a bright blue sign with some white lettering on it.  Immediately after that blue sign is a vertical gray sign with white lettering, and a green-and-yellow logo at the top.  On the left you should see a large black building with three flags.  

Stop and look to your left, and up the front of that large black building.  You will see Touchdown the Bear sitting on the little metal ball at the end of the middle flagpole.  He is sitting above a red-white-and-blue flag.  Get turned so the green trim around several windows is on your right side. Go straight down this road. You will see a yellow ladder up against some green scaffolding a short distance down this road. Keep going.  Go straight through the first intersection. At the next intersection make a left turn. Once you get turned there is a building just ahead on the right with a white bay window sticking out and the building has garage doors and cars can go in. Go straight. At the intersection keep going straight. You won't quite get to the end of this block. You'll pass some scaffolding on the right side. There is a bright red large door on the right you can't miss. Go until it is right next to you then face the right. Touchdown is on the ground right in the middle of that red doorway.  Position yourself so you are facing the correct direction down a narrow one lane one-way street. There will be a white van parked on the right side of the street with a gold fire hydrant and two gold posts beside the white van. Enter that street and proceed to the first lighted intersection. Turm right at this intersection. Go to the next intersection, on the right will be some broken red awnings. You will need to turn right at this intersection, also. After turning there will a yellow post with a yellow diamond sign on it. Behind it on the wall is two tall black metal boxes. The Touchdown is on the back corner of the box near the black door.  Go with the flow of traffic and make a left turn at the first traffic light.You will go past a bunch of blue bikes on your right.Go to the second traffic light and make another left turn. On your right you will see a fence with objects on it in front of a playground. Touchdown is on the second  fish on this fence  Turn so you heading down the street with traffic. Go straight down this road. At the light slightly down the street take a left. You will see a bushiness sign on the building to your right with red check mark on the sign. At the next light take another left. Go down this street about a block. Stop when you see a delivery truck with an open back door parked on the left side of the street. Inside you will see what looks like some folded blue tarps, and some boxes. Look to your left. You will see a green pipe looking object coming out of the sidewalk in front of the building to your left. Touchdown is sitting atop this pipe.  you are almost in an intersection turn so that you enter the intersection and turn right go forward a little bit till you see a zebra crossing if your in the crossing you have gone too far  to your left there are some bikes chained up touchdown is sitting in the middle of the handlebars of the white bike Turn yourself so you'll walk in the same direction all the cars are going on this street.  Move forward into the intersection, and turn left.  At the next intersection you come to, turn left. Go a very short distance and look to your left.  That first building on your left has old-looking wood siding.  There are two big metal chests along that wall that are gray (with graffiti all over).  On top of them is some sort of bright yellow cushion.  The bear is on that cushion. Face the intersection immediately in front of you. There will be scaffolding on your right. Go through the intersection to the next one.

Turn right. This is a one way road with orange construction fencing on your left. Walk down to the next intersection

At this intersection, turn right again. There is a business with orange awning on your right now. Walk to the end of the block, but stop just at the crosswalk. Look to your right. On the corner there is a business with a neon sign. Touchdown is in the middle of the sign.

 Turn so that there is an iron fence to your left, surrounding a garden of trees and shrubs.  You are facing an intersection. Go left at it, into oncoming traffic. Ahead to the right, see a post with a small blue light on it.  Before that light, you will find a staircase going down to the brick building, also on your right. Stop just before getting to that stairwell.  You will see a lamppost in front of a tree in front of the stairwell entrance. Touchdown is sitting on top of that lamp post.  Turn so the tall black metal fence is to your left. Head down the street. When you come to the first intersection, take a right in front of the building with the green awning. Go down that street. Take a right after the white delivery truck parked on the right. Head down this street. Stop in front of the brick walk up building with the bright red door, and two blue plant pots on the steps. It's on the left side of the street. Touchdown is on top of the plant pot on the right. Orient yourself with traffic. Continue straight through the first intersection and then turn right at the next intersection. There will be a subway entrance on your left with two green orbs on the poles of the entrance. At the end of this block, turn right. Move just a couple paces and stop. On the left is an apartment building entrance with landscaped hedges in front of it. Touchdown is on top of the hedge to the left of the apartment entrance. Turn around until you're facing with traffic, with an orange and white barrier on your left. Go to the end of the block, and take a right. Walk to the end of this block,. with a roofed  sidewalk on your right. Go right here. Now go forward until you've passed two blocks on your right, and then a little bit more. There will be a building on your left with multiple different color sections on the upper part, go forward until you are right between the second to last section (yellow) and the last section (white).  Touchdown is on the bottom right corner of the yellow upper section, an outcropping. Leaving the orange barrels behind you to your left, follow the offramp to the light and go right. Go through the next light, and stop when there's a building with a green sign band with white glyphs on your right, just past the blue bicycles, also on your right.  Turn so you're facing the building head on.   

To the left is another building, which has a yellow sign band and green letters, with a red oval shape in between.  Touchdown is dead center of it. Turn yourself around so the big metal garage doors will be to your right and the beige brick building will be to your left. Go to the corner and turn right. 

Going with traffic flow, go to the next corner and turn right. 

Now facing traffic, go to the next corner, which is a 3-way, and turn left. Just as you begin down this road/exit, you will notice three cones on the side of the road to the left. Touchdown is on top of the center cone.  Orient yourself with the flow of traffic. there will be orange barriers and stringed lights on a tree to your right. Go straight to the first intersection and turn left.

There will be red buildings on your left now. Go straight to the next intersection and turn left again.

There will be red umbrellas, black dumptruck and a piece of yellow machinery to your left. Go straight to the next intersection and turn left again.

There will be a building on your left with a purple awning. Go straight to the next intersection and turn left (you've almost made a complete circle)

On the right hand side there will be a parked box truck, green in color. Right behind it is two brown boxes. the touchdown is located on top of the tallest box.




 Position yourself so you are traveling with the flow of traffic on this one-way street. Turn right at the stop sign. When you get to the intersection, turn left. Go straight through the next intersection. When you get to the next intersection, go straight through again and stop immediately. There will be a garbage bin next to a gray pole on the corner to your left. It's right by the crosswalk. Touchdown is on top of the garbage bin.  Going with the flow of traffic, go straight to the first intersection and turn right.  Go to the next intersection and turn right again.  You'll see a pedestrian ramp to your right. Go to the next intersection. The store to your right has a red awning.  On the corner of the awning is a white circle with the name of the store above the store address. Touchdown is the center of this circle. Follow the street to go under the glass building.
Go into the tunnel.
Right before you exit the tunnel there is a column in the middle with a no smoking sign on it. 
Touchdown is on the no smoking sign.
 Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Take your first left, then the next left.  Pass the bikes on your right.  Take next left.  There is a yellow sign on the sidewalk to your left.  Stop when you are directly next to it.  Look at it.  There is a bag inside it in the bottom.  The bear is on it. Face the intersection directly in front of you. Go left at the intersection.

Go all the way down to the next corner and turn left.

Going with traffic flow, go to the next corner and turn left.

Going with traffic flow again, go about halfway down the block. You will pass a big purple sign with white lettering on your left. Just past that, on the left, is a red canopy awning. Touchdown is on the front and center of that awning. Position yourself in which there should be lots of cars on your left facing toward the yellow traffic light up ahead. Follow the road and go pass the intersection. Once you pass the intersection, you should see a light brown building and a red or orange one next to it on your left and continue forward passing those building. Eventually you should arrive at an intersection and make a right turn. Once you made your right turn, you will notice a bench on your left and some black fence on your right. Follow the road and fence and eventually the black fence will hit come to an end and bring you to a tall black gate on your right. Don't go pass the gate. The touchdown is sitting in front of the gate on the cement but located in the middle of the gate on your right hand side. Stand facing the direction of the traffic. Go straight and make a right at the first street light. Keep going straight until you pass the second street light. You should have a blue sign on your left with a red arch. Touchdown is just above the red arch on the blue sign. Orient yourself so the red window is on your right and the green plywood awnings held up by scaffolding are on your left.  You're going to go straight on this road for a long time.  Count the number of intersections with traffic lights you go through.  You're going to go straight through 2 intersections with traffic lights, and a few intersections without lights, but don't bother counting those.  At the third lighted intersection, turn right.  Begin walking down this road looking to your right.  There is a teal colored first floor with a red brick second floor and a red fire escape.  Touchdown is on the bottom of the red fire escape ladder.  Align yourself so the food truck is on your left. head up to the intersection to make a left, and shortly after you'll make another left. After the second left there should be a green awning on your left.

Head down until you pass some scaffolding with a bunch of barricades in front of it. Pass just by the blue box on your left under the scaffolding. On your right, there should be a string of bulbs under the scaffolding, and one of them is red. Touchdown is on the red bulb. Face the light and go right. Take the next right, go to end of block and right again. Almost at the end of that block, stop when you see a grey metal roll door on your right under a black awning. In front of it is a black planter with what looks like white grass.  Touchdown is on the solid red circle sticker on the glass window in wood framing to the right of the silver elf-grass. Head the same direction as traffic is going. Go straight through the first intersection. When you reach the second intersection, go straight again. At the third intersection you will see steam coming up from the road and a lot of orange construction things. Make a right at this intersection. Go straight down this road until you are just about to pass under a bridge then stop. On the right side you see a lot of orange fencing that is stacked together standing up and a white planter with a little pine tree between the stacks. Touchdown is sitting in the planter up against that tree. Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that the other lanes of traffic are to your right. A billboard with two people carrying a red canoe should also be on your right.

2. Follow this road for a while. When you pass by the massive, white arch at the end of this bridge (not the circular structure behind it that it's attached to), you're very close.

3. On the side of the aforementioned circular structure, you should see several square columns supporting it. When you're even with the final square column, stop.

4. Affixed to the wall beneath this column is a white/light gray box with black wires coming out of it. Touchdown is sitting on top of this box.

Good luck! :) Orient yourself in the direction of the bridge. Go straight. There will be an intersection with a large building with few windows on the left. Go straight through it. Go through the next intersection as well. At the following intersection there should be large black posts in the middle. Look to the left. there should be six black posts. Touchdown is on the nearest one. Turn and go in the same direction as the traffic. You will have some red doors to your right. Turn right at intersection. A large tan building with boarded up doors on the left. You will pass 2 brown umbrellas over tables on the left. Turn and go in the same direction as the traffic. Pass a construction area on the left. Go straight at the intersection. White building with flags on the left. Some scaffolding on the right.  Pass a couple of red doors and a black door on the left. There is a gray fire hydrant between 2 poles on the left. Touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant.  Turn so that you are going with the flow of traffic, and head to the nearest intersection.  Turn right.  Continue forward to the next intersection.  Turn right.  At the next intersection, turn right.   Face to the left.  You will see a door with two diamond windows.  Continue down the road another few steps.  You will see a building with the color wearing off.  There are two pumpkins on the stairway to the left.  The bear is on the top pumpkin. Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going against the flow of traffic in the lane that you're in. There should be a food cart and a couple of tables selling items to your left. An intersection should be right behind you.

2. Ignore the three-way intersection that you come across. Your destination is very close!

3. On the left, you should see a white van parked near a fire escape. When you're even with the back of the van and can see that one of its back doors is open, stop. You should also be right in front of the fire escape.

4. Look at the building that the van is parked in front of. In front of both sets of doors, you should see an A-frame sign. Touchdown is sitting on top of the left sign (the one closer to the van).

Good luck! :) Follow the direction of traffic on the one-way street to the intersection and take a left. Take another left at the next intersection.

You'll come to a wye in the road.  Ignore the right and take a step forward, so you can turn slightly to your right and see the pole on the corner with the green square sign and the two yellow diamond signs underneath it.

The touchdown is exactly on the point of the top yellow diamond sign on that pole. Orient yourself with traffic and proceed through the intersection, passing a striped building on the right before making a right turn. Pass a building on the right with boxed tree planters out front as well as a line of traffic cones and barriers before turning right at the light. Turn right at the light after passing a red beam with warning message on the right. Pass two yellow dumpsters on the right and stop when even with a green dumpster. Touchdown is on the horizontal blue graffiti on the green dumpster. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, and go straight when the left turn comes up, and make a left at the second left turn.

Follow this road in to the middle of the next intersection. If you turn to your right, slightly behind you, you will see a produce card with three umbrellas. Touchdown is on the top of the striped red and white umbrella closest to you, above the bananas. Turn around until you are facing against traffic for your side of the street, then go straight ahead to the intersection. There will be a roofed sidewalk on your left, and a lot of trees on your right. Go right, past the trees and alley to the next interection, The road you're on will curve right a bit before you get there, so what seems like straight across the intersection, they'll be a United States flag on the right side of the road. Now go straight a long distance, past the building on your right with what looks like a lot of construction stuff on the side, until you pass a small barbed wire fence on your right. If you reach the intersection, you've gone too far, but not by much. There will be a black window on the building to the left of the fence, Touchdown is in the center of that window. Orient yourself facing the intersection right next to you with scaffolding ahead on the left.  Move through this intersection and straight through the next with the large building on the left that has a lot of windows.  On your right will be orange marquees on the building with white text.
Hang a left ahead at the 3-way intersection.  Move forward and you will see a bunch of orange and white cones knocked down on the left.  Head forward stopping at the last street light on your right, just before the orange cone on the right.  Touchdown is hiding on this cone. Turn so you're facing the trashbags and a curve to the right.  Follow this around til it dead ends.  Play with the arrows until you can go right.  Go forward and you should see 3 yellow poles, go forward until you can turn left.  Follow the taxi into the intersection.  You should see rainbow banners on the way on the left.  At the intersection, go left.  Shortly, the road will split, go left.

Go forward a couple steps and you should get just past the blue scaffolding.  
Turn left and you'll see a door behind grey scaffolding.  Touchdown is on the weather strip at the bottom of this door. Go in the direction of the red and yellow umbrellas. At the first intersection, take a left. Go straight, past some more umbrellas on the left. There is a big pedestrian crostraightwalk. Go straight through it. There is an orange stick on the road to the right. Touchdown is on top of it. Turn so you are facing the intersection you are very close to. Enter it and make a left turn. On your left you will see orange and green and white stripes on part of the building. Go straight down this long block. As you go you'll pass some purple awnings on the left side. Once you get to the intersection make a left turn then stop. There will be some darker colored glass on a building to your left and some blue awnings on the right. On the right side there is a trash can on the corner. Touchdown is on top of that.  Hello there!

1. Make sure that you're looking down the right side of a divided street. You should be going with the flow of traffic, and there should be an orange sign affixed to a a lamppost to the right.

2. Go through the first intersection, passing by some scaffolding on the right. Go through the next intersection, as well. When you reach a third intersection, there should be a reddish brown brick church on your right. Take a left here.

3. When you reorient yourself, you should be looking at the other intersection of the divided street. Pass through it, and you should be close to your destination.

4. Keep an eye on the left for a store with some mannequins in a window between two sets of steps on the left. Stop right before you pass the first set of steps. You should be even with a potted plant with pink flowers. Touchdown is in the middle of the flowers.

Good luck! :) Turn so the grassy median is on the left and the bright blue double doors are on the right. Head towards the bridge. At the break in the median, make a left turn and continue into the street. There is a blue mailbox on the right corner. Go straight down this road, there will be a road that meets from the right. Ignore that and continue straight. Make a left turn at the next three-way intersection. There will be a fenced playground on the left side with bright blue benches inside the fenced portion. Move straight, you will approach a red post and what looks like a small road on the left. and another fenced lot. On the right side of the road. rotate and face the buildings on the right. You should be facing a large walk way.   There are piles of trashbags along the sidewalk. There a space between two piles of black bags, there is a black fire hydrant there. The Touchdown is on top of the black fire hydrant.  Follow traffic to the light and go left; you'll pass a grey building with a light brown overhang on the left corner as you do.  Walk almost to the end of the block, watching on your left for some very blue paneling under four windows in an arch.

Pass that, and stop so the building with the steps to a door, right before the building with the pair of two double glass doors, is directly to your right, and you can see a grey porta-potty with a white roof just ahead of you and to the right.

Touchdown is affixed to the square red sign on the DOOR of the porta-potty.

 Turn so that the purple sign is to your right. Walk straight through the next intersection and stop in the crosswalk on the opposite side. There is a fire hydrant with a silver top to your right. Touchdown is sitting on top of the hydrant. Turn yourself so you are facing traffic and head down the street.  Continue straight until you get to the first intersection and turn right.  You will see a large white dome ahead on your left as you travel.  Turn right at the intersection where the dome is.  You will see some green construction scaffolding on your left.  You will pass a large red metal container covered in blue tarp on your left.  Just past the blue tarp is a construction barrier with a yellow diamond sign on it.  Touchdown is sitting on the street under that sign. Going with the flow of traffic, head down the highway. There will be a suspension bridge ahead that you can see in the distance. Keep going until you see a small green street sign along the side of the high way (long before you cross under the bridge). Touchdown is on this green sign. Align yourself with the flow of traffic, and head down, making a left at the intersection. Make a left at the next intersection.

Head down this road about halfway, You should see the start of some wooded, gated construction to your right, right under you where you should stop, and the scaffolding stops on your left. On the left, at the edge of the scaffolding next to a planter box with a tree, there will be a red bag. Touchdown is on top of the red bag. Align yourself with the flow of traffic. Ignore the first intersection, and when you reach the second, make a right.

Make a right at the next intersection. Very shortly in, you should see a silver bike with a basket on it, in front of a windowed shop. Touchdown is in the bikes basket. Turn so scaffolding is on your right, orange fencing and barriers on your left.
At the first major intersection just ahead, there will be scaffolding on your left and a corner store with green awning on your right. There is a light pole on the corner in front of that store with green awning and Touchdown is waiting at the base of the light pole between the pole and the plants next to it.
 turn to move with traffic, go straight through the 1st intersection and make a left at the second. There will be a black fire hydrant with a red top on your left, continue to the next intersection. at this intersection take a left, you will have scaffolding to your right. You will pass a bus stop on your right, next to it is a pole with a large hanging basket, the bear is in the basket Turn so you are facing the intersection you are so close to. Enter it and keep going straight.  At the next intersection make a right turn. Now the bridge you went under is on your right side. Go straight to the next intersection. Make another right turn which takes you under the bridge again. Go straight to the next intersection and make another right turn. There will be some yellow on a metal roll down door on the left side. Go almost all the way down this block. You will pass a lot of potted plants on the left. You will go just past the pile of black trashbags on the right. When you are right next to the open gate of the bus parking lot on the right come to a stop. Face right and you'll see a traffic cone on top of a yellow pole just inside the gate on the left side of the opening. Touchdown is on top of that.  Follow traffic to the end of the block and go right, go to the end of that block and right again.  Go past the green awning on your left, but stop before reachine the white building on your left and the large white concrete blocks on your right. 

Turn to your right.  To the left of the neon purple square on the first steel pole is a red light.   Touchdown is affixed to the light. Turn yourself so you are going the same way with the traffic. Go to the intersection. Turn left at this intersection. Now you see a store with orange awning to your right. Good. Now go straight to the next intersection ahead of you. You will see blue awning to your left. Turn left at this intersection. Once you made the turn, go straight to the intersection. You will see white/red strips awning to your left. Go into this intersection and make one left move. You should see a view with different time now. Now face yourself to the store with black exterior paint. In front of the store you should see a light pole, there is a traffic light on it with red palm light. The touchdown is in the palm.  You're beginning right in the center of an intersection. Position your body so the building with the bright yellow sign above the door is on your right. Travel just a short bit until you see a street on your right. It's not a full intersection and there are no traffic lights, but there is a bright red building on the corner. Turn right on this street. 

Just ahead a bit, there will be a street on your left. Turn left on this street and immediately look to your right. There is a drawing of a man on the side of a white building. Touchdown is on the man's nose.  Turn so that the hat stand is to your left. Then turn left at the first intersection and go forward.Turn left at the second intersection to go down a one-way road. There will be a line of bikes on your right. The touchdown is on the blue square on the American flag ahead and to your right.  Follow traffic to the light and go left. Go left again at the next light. Go left again at the following light. Make a final left at the next light.  There'll be scaffolding on your right and perhaps a sense of deja vu.

Watch on the left for a building with green, orange and black letters on a grey background above its double glass doors, and stop before passing it.  Rotate right and find Touchdown atop the white cap of the hydrant. Align yourself so the green cherry picker is on your right, and head up to the intersection to make a right. You'll make another right shortly after. There should be three red awnings on your left after the second turn. Watch for a red backed truck with a white half circle and the right door open as you head about three quarters down the road. Just past it is a tan building with a blue fire escape. Touchdown will be on the first step of the fire escape, not the ladder. Turn so you are facing the OPPOSITE direction as traffic and travel towards the crosswalk, stopping just in front of it.
Look to your right and see the green door with the metal handle.
Touchdown is sitting on top of the door handle.
 With the green wall to your right, go to the first intersection and take a left.  You'll take another sudden left. (don't enter the arch)  Go to the next intersection and take another left and another sudden left again.  You'll have the tall green wall on your right again. (you've just made a circle back almost to where you started)  There will be a white truck parked on your right.  There's a traffic barrel behind the truck.  Touchdown is on top of that orange and white barrel. Align yourself with the small street that has a subway entrance on either side, and head down it. At the next intersection, you'll make a right. Shortly after, you'll make another right, down the street where scaffolding will be on your left as you enter.

There should also be a row of blue bikes on your right. Behind the first few bike rows, there's a planter with a tree and a couple bikes tied to the pole to the righg of it. Touchdown is sitting on the rightmost seat of the bikes tied to the pole, not the rental bikes, but in front of them. Hello there!

1. Orient yourself so that you're going with the flow of traffic. There should be a clothing store to your right and a large yellow delivery truck to your left.

2. Begin moving forward, passing through the first intersection that you come across. When you reach the next intersection, take a left. When you reorient yourself, there should be a large stone building with huge columns to your left and a few differently colored umbrellas outside of another large building should be to your right.

3. Move forward until you reach the next intersection, and take another left. There should now see a business with blue overhang/sign to your right and some scaffolding with a green overhang should be to your left.

4. Pass through the next intersection that you come across. Your destination is very close. Stop as soon as you're in the middle of the crosswalk. If you look to the right, you should see a vertical green stripe on a building. If you follow it upward a little bit, you should see a green and white sign. Touchdown is in the very center of this sign.

Good luck! :) Position yourself by turning around till you are facing the direction of traffic. You should see orange/white cones on both side of the road and on the right side you will see a ladder. Now going forward. When you reach the intersection, turn left. Now look around, make sure you are facing a road where on the left side there is an orange lift truck and some orange cones. You need to get on this road. Once you are on this road you will pass that orange lift. keep going straight. Pass the first intersection, stop at the next intersection. You should see scaffolding and greenboard ahead of you on the right side. Straight ahead there is a traffic light pole across the street, with a green road sign on it. Go into the intersection, so you are closer to that sign. The touch down is on that green sign.   Orient yourself so the red brick building is on your right and the lighter brick building is on the left. Continue forward to the next intersection and go straight. On your left will be a broken construction barrier and on your right is a red brick apartment building.  Continue forward to the next intersection and go straight. You should now be in the middle of the intersection. Go back and to the left and then continue forward to go through the intersection. Continue moving forward against the flow of traffic until you're in line with the first square red pole you see on the left side of the road.Touchdown is sitting on top of this pole.
 Turn around so the nearest intersection is behind you. Walk forward. Go straight through the next intersection.  Before entering the next intersection, notice a street sign on the near right corner, with black and white arrow signs. The top sign on the pole will show a truck. Go straight through this intersection. Go left at the next intersection. Upon turning, there will be a playground immediately on your right. Walk past it, also passing basketball courts on your left. At the very end of the chain link fences on your left, see some small street level windows on the building to the left, all with blue window sills. Stop between the 4th and 5th blue windowsills, and face them. Turn to face the opposite side of the street, being directly in front of a double red door. Touchdown is sitting on top of the small black light fixture above those doors.  Go straight in the direction away from the harbor. At the first intersection, take a right. At the next intersection there should be a flag on a building to the right. There are also rental bike racks. Touchdown is on the closest rack to the intersection. Go in the direction that puts the body of water to your left. Pass under the first bridge. Pass the sports field on you right. Pass the big blue sign on the light colored building on your right. Attached at the end of this light colored building is a smaller square building, Stop in front of this smaller square building, if you get to the tall red brick buildings you have gone too far. Turn to your left and you should be right across from a street lamp. Turn to you right and look at the square building, it has two rectangular lights on it. Touchdown is in the center of the light on the right.  Turn so the closed garage door is on your right.  Go forward to the first intersection, and turn left.  
On this block you'll have subway entrances on both sides of the street, and red flags on the building on your right.  Go forward one short block to the next intersection, and turn left again.
Here you'll have an empty store with white paper over the windows on your right, and some rental bikes on the left.  You'll pass a playground on your left and basketball courts on the right.   After the basketball courts is a long tan building on the right.  Keep an eye on this building.  You'll pass a bright blue set of doors right away, then a second set of blue doors.  Past that is a set of gates, then a third set of blue doors. Stop when you're between the gates and that third set of doors.  The bear is in the center of the third set of blue doors. 
 Orient yourself so you are following the flow of traffic with the convenience stand to your right, Continue straight to the next intersection and take a left, Continue straight to the next intersection and take another left, Go straight and you will see several construction barriers on your left and a building with a green awning and some scaffolding beneath it, Go straight until you pass the brown delivery vehicle on your right,  Go forward a bit until you reach the entrance of the store with a gray awning on your right, click the middle word on the gray awning to find touchdown.  Align yourself so you're heading towards the orange and white barricades. Ignore the first right, and head through the intersection ahead as well. Ignore the first back right at the next intersection, and turn right in to the flow with traffic at the second intersection a couple steps up.

You'll make a right here, there should be green flooring with a bunch of potted plants on your left. Stop at the last 3 potted plants on the right, touchdown is on the right most plant in the bush. Follow traffic with the blue guard house on your right and go right when you get to the light.

Pass the orange Jersey walls on your right and go through two lights, and take a right at the third.  The left corner building should have green awning with white letters and glyphs.  

Stop when you see a storefront with a neon green sign band with white glyphs and a ridged metal security door with a mural having a yellow background and many flowers and a blue butterfly with purple on its tail segments ahead and to your right. (To your direct left should be a glass door into a tan stone building.)

Touchdown is affixed to the butterfly on that metal overhead door ahead and to your right.

 Turn around so you're walking with the flow of traffic. Continue forward until the next intersection, then turn left. Continue until the next intersection and turn left again. Continue under the overpass and go all the way past the orange and white construction barriers on the right. There will be a red fire hydrant/standpipe against the building with the orange wall. Touchdown is sitting on top of that red fire hydrant. You're starting out right next to an intersection.  Turn to face the intersection, and go straight through it.  You'll be passing construction scaffolding on the right side.  Go a short distance to the next intersection, but stop right before it - stop right before you step onto the crosswalk.  Look to your left, and there is a store that is painted navy blue with rust-colored trim.  Right in front of that store is some sort of red pole in the sidewalk (between two yellow poles).  The bear is on top of the red pole.  Orient yourself with parked cars, proceed, and turn right at the light. Turn right at the next light. Go straight at the stop sign then turn right at the light. Stop when you would be outside a cosmic smiley face painted on the right sidewalk buildings. Ahead a lightpole should have a Conan advert on it. Touchdown is beneath Conan's raised leg. Align yourself so the loading bay with the yellow awning is on your right, head up to the intersection to make a right. You'll make another right at the next intersection as well.
You should pass by a dirty yellow awning and a huge yellow sign to the left of it as you go down the second turn. Keep going down and make a final right at the first intersection. Head to  the next intersection, you should see a blue awning on the corner to your right. In front of it is a trash bin next to two yellow poles. Touchdown is on the right yellow pole. Turn so that the yellow artwork with two white figures on it is to your right. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left. You should see a blue awning to your left. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left. You should see a yellow store sign with red symbols to your left. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn left. There should be a yellow and white striped awning to your right. Walk forward until you are next to the black post with the blue stripe to your right. Touchdown is on top of this post. Orient yourself with traffic and proceed. Pass a green mailbox on the left immediately and then pass a gray awning on the right before turning left at the intersection. Pass by a store on the right with a tube of toothpaste name plate before turning left. Pass a mailbox on the left and phone booth on the right then pass by a point in the road that has a gray awning on both sides of the sidewalk. You'll travel by a parking garage ramp downward and a short red awning on the right near some bikes chained to a sign. Turn left at the intersection and barely exit the intersection. Touchdown is on the trash on the corner to the right. On your left is a chain-link fence with razor wire on top and a lot of equipment behind the fence. On your right is a fence that you cannot see through. You should be under a bridge.
Go straight into the intersection and make a left. Continue straight and make your next left. Once you have made that left if you look to your right you will see offensive lots of shipping containers. If you look to your left you will see another fence was razor wire and what appears to be a large shipping crate beside a white trailer. Continue straight. When you reach the intersection make a left turn. Continue straight until you reach the next intersection then stop. To your right you will see a sign that is black with a white arrow and black letters. It is right above the street sign. Touchdown is sitting in front of the white arrow. Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Head to the nearest intersection.  Turn right.  The bridge will be on your left.  Take your first right.  There is a building with red on it, on your left.  Head towards it, but stop before it.  There is a half open garage on the left.  To the right of the garage is yellow brick.  The bear is on the ground at the yellow brick.   From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  The red and white brick wall should be on your left, and the shuttered storefront with a blue and white awning should be on your right.  

Walk forward until you come to an intersection.  Take a right at this intersection so that you are walking down a street with scaffolding and a green awning on your left and a shop with a blue sign and red swoosh logo on your right.  Move forward and stop in the middle of the next intersection you come to.  

Turn to your right and look down another narrow street.  This time there will be a shop with white lettering over a yellow and black sign on the left, and a dirty yellow wall with some red lettering on the right.  Walk between these two buildings.  

Pass a truck that is unloading on your right, and keep moving forward.  Pass a large green/turquoise truck parked on the right, and then an American flag hanging down from a wall on your left.  

After the flag, you will see a yellow diamond-shaped sign on a pole on the right-hand sidewalk.  Move just past that sign and then look to your left.  

You will see a bulletin board with lots of multicolored papers on it in front of a blue gate on the left side of the street.  Above the bulletin board are some thin black letters and numbers.  Touchdown is sitting just above those numbers. Turn so that you are going against the flow of traffic you are only going to move a few feet just past a light pole on your right turn around and next to the light pole you will see a yellow square painted on the sidewalk and right in the center of that yellow square is where Touchdown is sitting Follow the flow of traffic, with the green awning on your right and make a left at the traffic light. Pass the red awning that is now on your right and stop after passing the bus stop. Look to your right, Touchdown will be on the bus symbol that is on the blue, circular sign. Follow the multi-laned one-way traffic to the end of the block and go left.

You should see a parking lot to your left, and a train station with shiny silver metal bollards and a side full of scaffolding to your right.

Walk to the end of the block and go through the intersection, but stopping before you're completely on the other side.  If you turn to your right, you will see a long line of white Jersey barriers with orange diagonal stripes in front of a green wall.

Touchdown is sitting on the road, on the white crosswalk line, against the white front of the final Jersey barrier. Orient yourself with traffic to move straight through the intersection closest to you. At the next intersection, there are white and orange construction barriers on the left. Touchdown is on the no thru traffic sign between the barriers. Turn so there is a large entrance on your left for cars. Continue straight, you will come up to yellow and white striped barriers on the right side of the road. Turn right at the first intersection. On the left side of the street, there are three pipes along the wall next to a single black glass door. The touchdown is in the middle of the red pipe. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic and some orange netting on the left side of the road.  You should see scaffolding ahead on the right.
Turn left at the next intersection and you should see some orange metal barrier fencing on the left.  Move forward just past the next intersection.

Next to the bus stop you will see a blue circular sign at the top of a pole that is slightly hidden by a branch.  Touchdown is on that sign. orient yourself so that you are going with the flow of traffic. Go straight until you hit the intersection. Go into the middle of the intersection and turn right. touchdown is on the step of the parked red truck. Turn yourself so you are facing the bridge and head down the street so you pass under it.  Turn right at the first intersection past the bridge.  You should she blue construction scaffolding on your left as you go down the street You will pass under two bridges.  Continue straight through the next intersection.  You should see a parking area on your left behind a tall wire fence.  On your right near the end of the fence, you will see two orange safety cones on the sidewalk.  Touchdown is sitting on the sidewalk in front of the cones. Follow the flow of traffic and continue straight. Go straight through one intersection and then stop right before the second one. There is a trashcan on the other side of the intersection to the right. The touchdown is where the middle of the trashcan meets the ground. Follow traffic to the light and go left. Go left again at the next light. Go straight through the next light.  Stop when you pass the olive colored mailbox on your right, and rotate right to stair at the glass door entrance flanked by two white planters with small bushes in them.   A green wreath hangs in the window.  Touchdown is in its center. Go with traffic. Go straight at the first intersection. Look right for the open parking garage door with red neon letters above it. Stop next to the two green benches just pass the garage door. Slightly a head is a fire hydrant. Touchdown is sitting on top of the fire hydrant.  Go with traffic flow to the next intersection and turn left. 
Go through the next intersection. Just beyond there will be a blue canopy on the left. Before that blue canopy there are three planters on the left. Touchdown is on top of the planter closest to the blue canopy. Orient yourself in the same direction the cars are parked.  There's a red and black building on your right and a store on the left has neon pink lights around it's windows.  Walk forward to the intersection and turn right.  Again, walk to the intersection and turn right.  You're going the correct way if there's a deli on your right with a maroon awning and a white building on your left with a black fence.  Down the street to the next intersection and turn right once more.  Walk to the next intersection, step into it and stop.  Directly ahead on your right is a bright yellow pentagon shaped sign with two stick figures walking on it.  Touchdown is on the top tip of the sign.   Turn so you are facing the direction that traffic is flowing. When you come to a three way intersection, make a left turn down the little one way street. Just ahead there is another 3 way intersection and you will take another left. You will come to another 3 way intersection. You want to take a left. You should see a bridge going over top of the road your turning on. As soon as you turn, stop. You will see a red post with graffiti on it on your left in front of you. Touchdown is on top of the red post.  Orient yourself with the tunnel behind you, go forward and curve left with the road, continuing to pass the orange and white barriers on your left. 

Go straight through the first intersection, you will pass more orange and white barriers on your left. 

Up ahead, on your right, there will be a dirty white building with a small green awning, pass that building and stop when it ends, before reaching the brick building. 

Touchdown is on the white sign that is on the black fence in between the white building and brown brick building. With the long green canopy extending over the sidewalk on your right, move with the flow of traffic to the intersection, and turn right. You'll immediately have an orange newspaper stand on your right. 

Go straight through the first two intersections on this street. When you get to the third one, go straight again, but stop immediately at the crosswalk. On your right is a sign pole. There is a sign that is red on top and white with red writing on the bottom. Touchdown is in the center of the red portion.  Follow the flow of traffic to the next intersection.  Turn left.  Continue to the next intersection.  Turn left.  On the right there is a building with the windows blocked out.  In the middle near the ground there is a silver electrical box.  The bear is on that box. With the trees decorated with holiday lights on your right, move with the flow of traffic to the first intersection, and turn left. A store on your left will now have a big red heart in the sign. Up ahead, you see a building will illuminated signs that are mostly blue. You'll turn left at the light just before that building. Now, those signs are on your right, and red and white striped awnings are on your left. 

Just ahead on the left is an open space, a row of bikes, and then scaffolding begins on both sides. Just after this is a short orange and white barrier on the left. The corner piece at the beginning of the barrier is white and it has a yellow light on top. Touchdown is sitting on top of the yellow light.  Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.  Head forward passing some barriers to the left.
Turn left at the next intersection and you should see scaffolding on your left that wrapped around from the street you were just on.
Head down to the next intersection and turn left.  You will have a brown storefront with a yellow rollup door on your left.
Head forward and when you are at a black building with brick right next to a building with blue trim on your left, you will want to look up where you will see a reddish orange banner hanging from the fire escape.  Touchdown is hiding in the middle of this banner.
 Orient yourself so the stairs are on your right and the park is to your left.
Go forward and cross over the first street you come across.
Proceed until you get to the next intersection and take a right.
After turning you should see a big clock tower in the distance.
Go forward and make your next right.
Immediately after turn you should see a shooting star on the RIGHT side of the street.
Approach it until it's well within your view.
The touchdown is directly in the center of this star.


 You need to go with the traffic and take the first right.  Continue down that road for one block then take another right.  When you turn right you should see a white locksmith van on your right side.  Go to the next intersection and turn right again, look at the crosswalk, there is a man hole cover where you can find Touchdown.  follow the direction of traffic. Go straight until you almost pass the construction zone on your right. You will see some blue scaffolding on your left . Next to the scaffolding there is a pole with signs on it. There are two green signs and on red sign. The touch down is in the middle of the red sign.  Follow the flow of traffic, making sure the brown building with the red door is on your right. Go forward and turn right when you see the green awning with big red letters ahead. It should now be on your left. Go forward and make a right when you see the park ahead of you to your left, at the third intersection. Stop after you pass the black fire hydrant in front of the building with the plants out front on your right. Look to your right, Touchdown is on the air conditioner that is in the second window above the door on the red and gray building. Go in the direction of the man wearing a black coat looking down on his phone, you will also see a truck with brake lights on.
keep going.
keep going pass the same truck with brake lights on and police car.
Turn right at the intersection with the man with the blue hat and tan coat on and the cash of car sign on the pole.
Keep gong down the street
On the right hand side you will see a blue and yellow fence. 
There are two men walking next to the fence and touchdown is right in front of them by their feet on the sidewalk, 
make sure the two men are almost by a tree behind the fence and have walked passed a white sign hanging on the yellow part of the fence.
 Starting out, there should be a store with green awnings on your left and a red and gray store on your right.  Travel straight through the first intersection.  In the middle of the block, on your left, you should see a red dumpster next to some green scaffolding.  Just past that, also on your left, will be an open black dumpster.  Just past the black dumpster is a white trash can with black writing.  Touchdown is sitting on top of the white trash can. Face the direction the cars are parked, with the yellow awning on your left. Go forward until you reach the first intersection, and make a right. Go straight through the first intersection you come to, and pass the orange and white construction barriers on your left. Make a right at the intersection immediately after them. Continue past the bike rental racks on your left. You'll see a large building almost entirely made of glass windows on the right. Touchdown is on the white sign in the lower-rightmost window. Turn so you're going with traffic and head towards the bridge in front of you. Walk until you see a small park with green-blue benches between the buildings on your right. Look down at the roadway in front of the concrete divider on your right for a black circle on the pavement to the right of a metal grate. The touchdown is sitting on top of it. Step into the intersection. and turn right towards the flow of traffic.  Go straight until you get to an intersection with a large orange pole on the far side.  Turn right.

You should see some graffiti on the left. Go forward until you are just past the plant with cardboard boxes behind it.

Look in that direction and you should see a red object above the black door.  Touchdown is on that object. With the small statue of liberty to your left, go straight past the orange cylinders. At the next intersection there is a traffic light toward the front left. Touchdown is right on the red light. Moving in the direction of the vehicles, go straight. Drive under the bridges. At the intersection, turn left. Go straight. Stop when there is a giant colorful painting on the side of the building to your right. Touchdown is on the top corner of the painted square. With the trash bags on your right and going with the flow of traffic, go straight.  You'll be going straight the entire way. You'll pass some basketball courts on your right, keep going straight towards the bridge in the distance. Keep an eye out for a tall white building with black trimmed windows and balconies on your right.  Touchdown will be on the first street light from the street below after you come to the white and black building.  (the height of the light is along the the concrete barriers to your right.) Start going straight in the direction of traffic and go left at the light, stopping just after you walk over the crosswalk and now have the building with red awning at your right. You'll have a row of white concrete bollards to your right and some thin metal ones to your left.

Turn right so you're facing the building with red awning, and note there's a face on the top portion of the crumbled metal yellow stand.  Touchdown is stuck to that face. Turn so that the scaffolding is to your left. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. There should be a red and white sign on the corner to your right. Walk forward to the next intersection and turn right. You should pass a store with a bunch of hats in the window to your right. Stop once you pass this store. There should be fire hydrant in front of you. on the right side of the road. Touchdown is on top of the hydrant. Turn so the trees are on your right and enter intersection, where you'll swing left. Proceed down street with scaffolding to your right and green barriers to your left. Walk until you come to the next intersection and go past it. Keep going, passing orange netting above concrete on your left and concrete with metal scaffolding to your right. Before you come to the next intersection, there is a break in the concrete footers on your right; it's the second such gap. There's a metal pole on the concrete footer before the gap. The touchdown is sitting where that metal pole meets the concrete footer. Follow traffic to the first intersection and go left, and then left again at the end of the block.

You will see many trees decorate with bright lights behind a row of parked blue bicycles to your left side. Continue down the street until you reach the last tree decorate this way, and turn to face it.

Between it and the previous tree is a black metal post with a bright blue band near its top. 

Touchdown is sitting on top of that pole. Turn so the busses in the parking lot are ahead of you to your right, make a right at the intersection, at the next intersection, across the street on your right are two yellow posts , the bear is on the left one Step out into the middle of the intersection.  Face into oncoming traffic Head straight keeping the trees on your right.  Go through one intersection.  Turn right at the next one.  Stop where the black fence starts on the left.  In front of it is a green fire hose hookup.  The bear is sitting on top.   Face the nearest street light and proceed through it and the next three lights. Turn right at the fourth light and stop in the crosswalk. The blue store on the corner to your left has a red curtain with a neon sign in it. Touchdown is centered on the sign. Follow the flow of traffic and on your right there is a park like setting After the park you will see a brown building on the right with a walk ramp and touchdown is at the bottom of that ramp  Go with the flow of traffic, enter the intersection, and turn right.  Follow this road and take the next right.  Stop in front of the front door of the building to your right.  The glass one, not the big rectangle.  Between the two glass revolving doors there is a white square on the wall.  The bear is in the middle.  From your starting point, turn around so that you are facing the same direction as the cars on your street.  There should be a park and a bus stop on your right, and some black posts and chains on the median to your right.  

Walk forward until you come to an intersection, and stop between the crosswalks.  As soon as you are able, turn to your right and walk over the sidewalk and onto a street that runs between a parking lot on the right and a grassy area on the left.  You should see a black and silver fire hydrant on the left, behind two silver poles, though it may be blocked by a large white truck as you pass.  If you then see a pile of trash bags on the road to your left, you are on the right track.  

Keep going down this road, and pass a parking lot on the left.  You will soon see some more trash bags and a black leather arm chair discarded on the right side of the road.  Keep moving forward as the road curves to your left.  

On your left, you should see a black and blue motorcycle parked in front of a wide section of sidewalk leading up to a building.  Walk a short distance past that motorcycle, and see some wooden boxes discarded in a notch in the fence on the left.  Move forward so that you can look directly at the boxes, and also at the faces of two small red and white signs on posts on the sidewalk.  

In the middle of the group of boxes is a large wooden box that has no front section.  Touchdown is sitting on top of this box. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Go past two 3-way intersections leading right.  You will pass some barriers as you go down to the 4-way intersection ahead, where you will turn left.  You should see a yellow building ahead on the left.  Move forward and turn left at the next intersection.  Go past the long row of blue bikes on your right.
Move forward, passing a roll up door to the left that has yellow painted up the sides.
Stop just before the storefront in front of the scaffolding to the left and you will see a grey door to the left of the store windows.  Touchdown is hiding on a little red sign to the left of that grey door. Turn and go with the flow of traffic.  Head to the nearest intersection.  (Pass one small right turn).  Turn Left.  Head towards the next intersection.  Cross over the 1st part of the intersection and turn left at the next part.  You will be facing with traffic.  Look to your right, there is a building with orange squares by the windows.  Stop when you are halfway across this building.  The bear is in the bottom left orange square.   Position yourself so the yellow and white road barriers on your left and the bright red buildings on your right. Just a few steps ahead is a street on your right. Just pass right by it. 

Go straight through the first real  intersection. At one point, you'll need to move left to then continue straight. When you arrive to the next intersection, there will be a business on your right with bright blue signs with white writing. You're going to turn right here, but skip the first street on the right and take the second one. They are right beside one another. You'll know you're on the correct street if there's a business on your right with pictures of fruit and smoothies in the windows. 

Continue pass the scaffolding, and there will be a narrow one-way street on your right when you reach the corner. Turn right onto that street. 

Just before the next intersection, you'll see plants in square planters on your left. Touchdown is sitting on the ground in front of the last planter you see before reaching the intersection. Face yourself so the port-o-potties are to your right and there is two stop signs ahead. Go to the stop signs and take a right. Go to the next stop sign and take a right. There should be orange and white barricades on your right. Go straight passing the dumpster on your right. You will pass a black canopy on your right and then the intersection will be right ahead. Take a right and then there will be a store with glasses on your right. Go down to the next intersection and take another right. There will be a dark brown canopy on your right and past that are some carts on wheels. Touchdown will be sitting on top of the first cart closest to the single window.   Position yourself in the same direction as all the park vehicle. Follow the road passing the traffic light ahead and eventually there should be two stop signs near a crosswalk up ahead. You want to take a right at the stop sign. Once you make a right follow the road until you notice a space for shading purposes to your right. You should also notice a pole that is holding a speed limit sign and a silver fire hydrant. Don't go pass the pole or fire hydrant. The touchdown is on top of the fire hydrant. Turn so the food in boxes is on your right.
Go straight and turn left at the next intersection.  There should be short rot iron fencing on a red brick wall on your right when you do.
The road will go to the left at the end, so follow it around.
Turn left at the next intersection.  The playground will be on your right.
Go until you pass the playground and you'll be next to a tall silver post with a red and white on it.  Touchdown is on that sign. turns you are with traffic, at the intersection continue straight with the green building with scaffolding at your left, continue down the one way street to the 1st intersection. Take a left, there will again be a building in green with scaffolding to your left, and a gray building with white pillars to your right. Continue to the next intersection and take a left, there is an empty store building to your right with green paper on some of the collumns. Ahead is a building covered in blue scaffolding, head down this street, go straight through the 1st intersection and stop at the second, on your right is a white trashcan next to a post, the bear is on the trashcan Orient yourself with the metal feathers to your left. Go straight and take a right at the first intersection. Take another right at the next intersection. Go straight down the street, past an intersection and a park to your left. When the park ends there should be a green awning to your right. Touchdown is right on top of the middle of it. Stand facing the same direction of the cars, with the 'under construction' park on your right and make a left at the second intersection, with the green store awning on the left. Go down the street, passing a park and make a left at the intersection.  Follow the green bike bath  and make a left at the first intersection. Go down the street, following the orange and white barriers to your right and stop before you reach the garden on the left, that's near the red awning. Touchdown will be on the center of that red awning. Turn around until you are facing the direction of traffic for the lane you are in. Walk one block, make a right. Go down the block, almost to the next intersection. When you see a pile of black trash bags to your left and a large graffitti of initials to your right, slow down. There is a mattress leaning against a black metal fence to your left. Touchdown is in the middle of the bottom fence panel to the left of this mattress.  Orient yourself, with the peak of the bridge in front of you. The other lane should be on your left. 
Continue going forward, making sure to pass the buildings and two parks beneath you, on your right. 
Stop when you reach the end of the last park that is beneath you, on the right, before you reach the water. Next to that park, there is a beige building with a big, blue sign on it. Touchdown is on the center of that sign. If you're in the correct position and you look to your right you'll see a blue sign with white words. This sign is on the side of a building which is made of large beige bricks.
To your left is a beige colored building with red awnings over every window in the storefront.
You need to go straight through the intersection.
You will go a very short distance and see a building on your left that is black with red letters for their sign. On your right will see a green building with orange letters on their sign.
Touchdown is on the left in front of the doors on the ground of the black building with the red letters on their sign. To know that your by the right store the store next door has a black sign with blue letters with a green sign with white letters below the blue letters. Align yourself with the flow of traffic of parked cars, head down to the intersection and make a left, then another left at the following intersection.

You're going to head all the way down almost to the next intersection, and look for a black building on your right, with red brick on the 2nd floor. There should be a wooden door with a black strip at the bottom of it. Touchdown is in the middle of the black strip. position yourself so you see SCHOOL in white letters on the road in front of you. The greenish yellowish sign is to the right. Follow this road until the intersection. Take a left. You'll see the white truck with the pig on it on your left. Follow this road. Go past the first intersection. You're going to see red apartments to your right. Go slightly past those and you will see a tall tree with garbage next to it. Red bricks behind it and an air conditioner. Touchdown is the top of the black and silver fire hydrant. 
 Align yourself with the scaffolding being on your left, and the row of blue bikes on your right. Go a few steps up, and make a left.

Follow this road down, and make another left. Shortly after, make another left.

Continue down and ignore the first intersection, a few steps after, you should see a red, then green, then yellow sign in a row. Touchdown is in the C of the red sign. Go down the street with brick buildings on either side, but a ramp on your right and grey awning ahead.  Go right when the street dead-ends.  Go right at the end of the block, where there'll be a green stripe painted on the sidewalk to your right.

Go right at the light, where you'll now have scaffolding on your left.  Stop when you get to the red brick building with blue fencing on your right. Rotate to face it, and you should be looking straight at it.  There are three hanging lights. The one center above the entry way has touchdown impaled on the bulb. Turn so the red brick building with a black paneled garage door is to your left. You are moving with traffic flow. Go all the way to the next corner and turn right. 

After you turn, go to the next corner and turn right.

When you turn scaffolding is on your left and rental bikes on your right. Continue down this road. About halfway down is a building with a gray front and white ornate security screen on the windows. On the left from that is a small red awning with white lettering. Keep going. A bit further down is a dark gray building on the right with built-in planters in front of it, then a red brick building just down from it, next to it. Just past that there is a gray scooter parked on the street between 2 cars. Touchdown is sitting on the seat of the scooter. Orient yourself so you are moving with the flow of traffic.
Turn left at the next intersection.
You'll pass a parking garage on your left as you go.
At the next intersection, you need to go to the far side and turn left so you are going with traffic after you do (just past the bells on the median).
Turn left at the next intersection, you'll see a large orange cone ahead when you need to turn.
Stop when you get to the two green dumpsters covered in graffiti on your right.
Above them is a window with a red grate covering it.  Touchdown is at the bottom of that grated window.
