
Main letters:

proscriptive : what rules aren't allowed
prescriptive : written from scratch

Problem type they are supposed to solve

C : improve communication among humans
T : improve translation or translatability
F : natural & intuitive for formal notations


Precision Expressiveness Naturalness Simplicity (PENS)

Precision 

  P1 : imprecise
  p3 : mapping sentences to formal representation is not fully formal
    - think of this in the context of noise
  p5 : fixed semantics

Expressiveness
   
(a) universal quantification over individuals (possibly limited)
(b) relations of arity greater than 1 (e.g., binary relations)
(c) general rule structures (if–then statements with multiple universal
    quantification that can target all argument positions of relations)
(d) negation (strong negation or negation as failure)
(e) general second-order universal quantification over concepts and relations

  E1 : inexpressive 
  E2 : description logics (still decidable)
  E3 : FOL
  E4 : HOL(2+)
  E5 : Anything expressable

Naturalness

N1 : symbols, purely formal
N3 : Dominant natural elements. Languages with dominant natural elements
N4 : Natural sentences
N5 : natural texts 



Simplicity : 

This description should not presuppose intuitive knowledge about any natural
language. It is therefore not primarily a measure for the effort needed by a
human to learn the language, neither does it capture the theoretical
complexity of the language (as, for example, the Chomsky hierarchy does).
Rather, it is closely related to the effort needed to fully implement the
syntax and the semantics of the language in a mathematical model, such as a
computer program.

criteria of exact and comprehensive

  S1 : Very complex language
  S2 : no exact nor comprehensive manner, but much simpler than S1
  {natural}

  S3 : >10 pages of rules
  S4 : 1-10 pages of rules
  S5 : <1 page of description
  {formal natural}

English : p1 e5 n5 s1
Prop Logic : p5 e1 n1 s5

Sowa's syllogisms - P5 E1 N4 S5 , F W A

C The goal is comprehensibility
T The goal is translation
F The goal is formal representation (including automatic execution)

W The language is intended to be written
S The language is intended to be spoken
D The language is designed for a specific narrow domain

A The language originated from academia
I The language originated from industry
G The language originated from a government


{Utterance} --audio analysis-> 
{Logical Form} : this is a possible verification condition the network


For the navigation coordinator :

constraints
- condition : can't intersect accelerate and breaking events at the same time 
- condition : rules for cutting people off, etc. all this should be done by the
  downstream system. but if we give it conflicting information, then it has to
  update its context
- micromanaging defeats the purpose of self driving car

Pedal 
Break Pedal
Wheel

local control
{
cruise control is a controller for the pedal
wheel control is a controller for the wheel
break control
  auxiliarry : windshield, windows. 
}

drive slowly when we pass the monument ahead

go until we pass...

drive in the right lane 
dodge this pothole

what is the default behavior 

take : 
  - take the next exit (turn right ahead)
  - take the 101 to the 405 sound

global control : managing the state 
{
stop at
go to 
circle back, I just saw x walking
take x route instead, but stop by the y
}

if we adjust local context, it may or may not effect the global context
  (drive slower, theres a bump ahead)
  vs 
  (no rush, we can get there a few minutes later)



What are the constraints of a self-driving car?
When does it disobey orders, either intentionally or unintentionally?

Go / Drive 
stop = ~drive

- no rush, we need to be there by ...
- accelerate slowly, theres a baby in the car
- Just drive
- Start car
- reverse out of this parking spot and wait (what does that mean)
- Go to X.
- take the next left and 
- Go to X via Y.
- Go to X stopping at Y first.
- Go to X then Y.
- Take X to Y. 
- Take the least expensive route to X.
- Take the most scenic route to X, such that Y.
- Stop at the next cheapest gas station 
- Let this person pass
- pick up the kids

go to x. then, from there, go to y.

keep the cruise on 65 until we approach a town

time reasoning
distance reasoning


p "turn right after the bridge"
p "turn right right after the bridge" -- ambiguous parses


t after the bridge"
- keep the blinkers on and drive 5kmh to the next gas station

logic : 
if there is a red light, and we're taking a right soon ahead, always take a right (as opposed to stopping).
always take the cheapest route
if there is a road that avoids X, take that 
go either way (left or right) if theres significantly more cars

- Accelerate 
- Slow down
- Speed up
- Set the cruise to X (verification condition)
- Stop

QA 
- How much longer is the X than the Y.
- How much more expensive is the X than the Y. 
- can we get there in X minutes if we need to stop at Y? 

What about other languages. Mixing of languages

French
Mandarin 
Arabic 
English

Could translate everything to English, or could have the CNL be inductively defined map down to 
a common set of formulas in first order logic. 

What is the controller have control of 

(i) endpoint, ;q


semantic primitives 




